@node Configuration, Logging, Installation, Top
@chapter Configuration system
@cindex config
@cindex configuration

@macro since{version}
Since @emph{\version\}.
@end macro

@macro menuentry{menu, item}
@samp{\menu\}->@samp{\item\}
@end macro

This chapter describes configuration system of the Lepton EDA suite.

@menu
* Introduction::                Introductory information.
* Legacy configuration::        Legacy configuration files still in use.
* New configuration system::    Overview of the new configuration system.
* Configuration of Lepton tools::  Configuration settings for particular Lepton tools.
* Deprecated settings::         Configuration settings having replacements.
* Obsolete settings::           Configuration settings no longer used.
* Resources::                   Other useful resources.
@end menu


@node Introduction, Legacy configuration, Configuration, Configuration
@section Introduction

Currently, there are two types of configuration files:
@enumerate
@item
Traditionally, Lepton EDA and gEDA settings were stored as Scheme
source code files, and some of them are still in use: @file{gafrc} and
@file{gschemrc} (@pxref{Legacy configuration, Legacy configuration
settings}).  The work is underway to convert them to the new
configuration system.
@item
New settings are stored in @file{*.conf} ini-like text files and can
be accessed using the @code{lepton-cli config} command.
@end enumerate


@emph{Important}:

Starting with Lepton EDA release
@url{https://github.com/lepton-eda/lepton-eda/releases/tag/1.9.10-20200319, 1.9.10}:
@itemize
@item
Most of the @file{gafrc} and @file{gschemrc} options are
@ref{Deprecated settings, deprecated} and replaced with new
configuration parameters.  For remaining options, @pxref{Legacy
configuration, Legacy configuration settings}.
@item
All the
@uref{https://github.com/graahnul-grom/lepton-eda/wiki/Deprecated-Settings#user-content-deprecated-gnetlistrc,
@file{gnetlistrc} options} are deprecated. Please stop using this
obsolete configuration file.
@item
Legacy names for @file{*.conf} configuration files are no longer used:
instead of @file{geda.conf}, @file{geda-user.conf}, and
@file{geda-system.conf}, configuration files are named @file{lepton.conf},
@file{lepton-user.conf} and @file{lepton-system.conf}, respectively.  The
@url{../man/lepton-upcfg.html, lepton-upcfg(1)}
utility can upgrade your settings stored in @file{geda*.conf} files.
@item
The directory for user configuration files is
@file{$XDG_CONFIG_HOME/lepton-eda/} (usually,
@file{~/.config/lepton-eda/}).
@item
The directory @file{~/.gEDA/} is no longer used.
@end itemize

@quotation Note
Later in this document, recently added options and groups of options
may be marked with ``@since{release}'', designating their introduction
in the specified Lepton EDA @code{release}, for example:
``@since{1.9.10}'' means the changes are available since Lepton EDA
1.9.10.
@end quotation

@c * [Deprecated settings](Deprecated-Settings#user-content-deprecated-settings)
@c     * [gafrc](Deprecated-Settings#user-content-deprecated-gafrc)
@c     * [gnetlistrc](Deprecated-Settings#user-content-deprecated-gnetlistrc)
@c     * [gschemrc](Deprecated-Settings#user-content-deprecated-gschemrc)
@c * [Obsolete settings](Obsolete-Settings)
@c     * [gafrc](Obsolete-Settings#user-content-obsolete-gafrc-file-options)
@c     * [gnetlistrc](Obsolete-Settings#user-content-obsolete-gnetlistrc-file-options)
@c     * [gschemrc](Obsolete-Settings#user-content-obsolete-gschemrc-file-options)



@node Legacy configuration, New configuration system, Introduction, Configuration
@section Legacy configuration files still in use

@menu
* gafrc::
* gschemrc::
@end menu

@node gafrc, gschemrc, Legacy configuration, Legacy configuration
@subsection @file{gafrc}

@file{gafrc} is a configuration file used by various tools in the
Lepton EDA suite.

Files named @file{gafrc} are read from @file{~/.config/lepton-eda/}
(user configuration) and from a directory where you run the lepton-eda
tools (configuration for current directory). Expressions in
@file{gafrc} files control the following settings:

@itemize
@item
Component and source libraries. @dfn{Component libraries} is a list of
directories where Lepton will search for symbol files (@file{*.sym}).
@dfn{Source libraries} is a list of directories where Lepton will
search for @dfn{source files} (defined by the @attr{source=}
attribute) used in hierarchical schematics.

@itemize @minus

@item
@code{(reset-component-library)}

Clear the list of component libraries.

@item
@code{(reset-source-library)}

Clear the list of source libraries.

@item
@code{(component-library @var{path} @var{name})}

Add the directory @var{path} to the list of component libraries giving
it a display name @var{name} which will be shown in the "Add
Component" dialog in @command{lepton-schematic}, for example:

@lisp
(component-library "/home/dmn/sym" "MySymbols")
@end lisp

@item
@code{(component-library-search @var{path} @var{prefix})}

Add the directory @var{path} recursively with all its sub-directories
to the list of component libraries. Directories added with this
command will be shown in @command{lepton-schematic} in the "Add
Component" dialog prefixed with the string @var{prefix}, for example:

@lisp
(component-library-search "/home/dmn/my-libs" "MyLibs::")
@end lisp

@item
@code{(source-library @var{path})}

Add the directory @var{path} to the list of source libraries.

@end itemize

@item
Color scheme used for exporting/printing by @code{lepton-cli export}
and @command{lepton-schematic}'s @menuentry{File, Write Image...}  (if
"Image type" is set to @samp{PDF}) and @menuentry{File, Print...} main
menu commands.

@itemize @minus
@item
@code{(primitive-load @var{file})}

Load a color scheme from file @var{file}, for example:

@lisp
(primitive-load "/usr/share/lepton-eda/print-colormap-darkbg")
@end lisp
@end itemize

@end itemize

@node gschemrc,  , gafrc, Legacy configuration
@subsection @file{gschemrc}

Configuration file for @command{lepton-schematic} schematic editor.

Files named @file{gschemrc} are read from @file{~/.config/lepton-eda/}
(user configuration) and from a directory where you run
@command{lepton-schematic} (configuration for current directory).
Expressions in this file control the following settings:

@itemize
@item
Color scheme used to draw schematics.

@lisp
(primitive-load @var{file})
@end lisp

Load a color scheme from file @var{file}, for example:

@lisp
(primitive-load "/usr/share/lepton-eda/gschem-colormap-bw")
@end lisp

@item
Custom keyboard shortcuts.

@lisp
(global-set-key @var{key} @var{action})
@end lisp

Assign key combination @var{key} to action @var{action}, for example:
@lisp
(global-set-key "<Control><Shift>N" '&file-new-window)
(global-set-key "A A" '&add-attribute )
@end lisp

Other actions and shortcut definitions can be found in the
@url{https://github.com/lepton-eda/lepton-eda/blob/1.9.11-20200604/schematic/scheme/conf/schematic/menu.scm,
menu.scm} and
@url{https://github.com/lepton-eda/lepton-eda/blob/1.9.11-20200604/schematic/scheme/conf/schematic/keys.scm,
keys.scm} files.
@end itemize


@node New configuration system, Configuration of Lepton tools, Legacy configuration, Configuration
@section Overview of the new configuration system

@quotation Important
In definitions of location and naming of configuration files as well
as their format we were guided by the two following standards:

@itemize
@item
@url{http://standards.freedesktop.org/basedir-spec/latest/, , XDG Base
Directory Specification}, and

@item
@url{http://standards.freedesktop.org/desktop-entry-spec/1.0/, ,
Desktop Entry Specification}.

@end itemize
@end quotation


Configuration parameters are always evaluated within a
@dfn{configuration context} which defines what configuration files are
processed and the processing order.  Each context is associated with a
configuration file (although the file does not necessarily need to
exist).

There are five configuration contexts:

@table @samp
@item DEFAULT

@itemize
@item
contains default values for configuration settings (read-only)

@item
configuration file: none

@item
parent context: none
@end itemize

@item SYSTEM

@itemize
@item
contains system-wide settings
@item
configuration file:
@url{https://github.com/lepton-eda/lepton-eda/blob/master/liblepton/lib/lepton-system.conf,
@file{lepton-system.conf}} (@since{1.9.10} Formerly it was named
@url{https://github.com/lepton-eda/lepton-eda/blob/master/liblepton/lib/geda-system.conf,
@file{geda-system.conf}}.)
@item
configuration file location: @file{$PREFIX/share/lepton-eda/}
(@env{$PREFIX} is the installation prefix, e.g. @file{/usr} or @file{/usr/local})
@item
 parent context: @samp{DEFAULT}
@item
@code{lepton-cli config} option to access this context:
@option{--system} (@option{-s})
@end itemize

@item USER
@itemize
@item
@anchor{user-configuration}
contains per-user settings
@item
configuration file: @file{lepton-user.conf} (@since{1.9.10} Formerly
it was named @file{geda-user.conf}.)
@item
configuration file location: @file{$XDG_CONFIG_HOME/lepton-eda/}
(usually, @file{~/.config/lepton-eda/})
@item
parent context: @samp{SYSTEM}
@item
@code{lepton-cli config} option to access this context:
@option{--user} (@option{-u})
@end itemize

@item PATH
@itemize
@item
@anchor{project-configuration}
contains per-project (per-directory) settings
@item
configuration file: @file{lepton.conf} (@since{1.9.10} Formerly it
was named @file{geda.conf}.)
@item
configuration file location: current directory (or directory specified
by @option{--project})
@item
parent context: @samp{USER}
@item
@code{lepton-cli config} option to access this context:
@option{--project[=@var{path}]} (@option{-p})
@end itemize

@item CACHE
@anchor{cache-configuration-context}
@itemize
@item
contains program-specific settings (dialog geometry, command history,
etc.); normally, you do not use it directly
@item
configuration file: @file{gui.conf}
@item
configuration file location: @file{$XDG_CACHE_HOME/lepton-eda/}
(usually, @file{~/.cache/lepton-eda/})
@item
parent context: none
@item
@code{lepton-cli config} option to access this context:
@option{--cache} (@option{-c})
@end itemize
@end table

@dfn{Context inheritance} means that if particular configuration
parameter is not found in some context, the value from its parent
context is used instead.  And if parameter is set in the child context
it will override one set in the parent context(s).

Configuration file contains @samp{groups} and @samp{key=value} pairs,
for example:

@example
@c ini
[group]
key=value
@end example

Any @var{value} can be of one of the following types:
@table @samp
@item string
@item boolean
@item integer
@item double
@item list
@end table

Values in lists are separated with semicolons (@kbd{;}).

@quotation Important
List values @strong{must} have exactly the number of elements
specified below in the manual for corresponding configuration keys.
Wrong number of elements will be considered an error.
@end quotation

@quotation Important
Always use @strong{point} (@kbd{.}) as separator for floating point
numbers if you edit a configuration file manually.
@end quotation


Lines beginning with a @samp{#} and blank lines are considered
comments:
@example
@c ini
# This is a comment
@end example

@command{lepton-cli} utility with the @code{config} command is used
to read and write configuration settings:

@example
lepton-cli config [@var{option}] [@var{group} @var{key} [@var{value}]]
@end example

@var{option} can be either @option{--system}, @option{--user},
@option{--project[=@var{path}]}, or @option{--cache} to access the
@samp{SYSTEM}, @samp{USER}, @samp{PATH}, or @samp{CACHE} context,
respectively.

For example, to get value of the @cfgkey{font} key from the
@code{schematic.gui} group in the @samp{USER} configuration
context, issue the following command, which will print the result to
standard output:

@example
@c sh
lepton-cli config --user "schematic.gui" "font"
@print{} OpenGost Type B TT Regular
@end example

To set that value to @samp{Monospace Regular} for configuration in the
current directory, type:

@example
@c sh
lepton-cli config --project "schematic.gui" "font" "Monospace Regular"
@end example



@node Configuration of Lepton tools, Deprecated settings, New configuration system, Configuration
@section Configuration settings for tools in the Lepton EDA suite

@menu
* lepton-schematic configuration::
* lepton-netlist configuration::
* lepton-cli configuration::
@end menu

@node lepton-schematic configuration, lepton-netlist configuration, Configuration of Lepton tools, Configuration of Lepton tools
@subsection @command{Configuration of lepton-schematic}
@cindex lepton-schematic configuration

@menu
* schematic.gui group::
* schematic.tabs group::
* schematic.status-bar group::
* schematic.undo group::
* schematic.log-window group::
* schematic.macro-widget group::
* schematic group::
* schematic.library group::
* schematic.printing group::
* schematic.backup group::
* schematic.attrib group::
@end menu

@node schematic.gui group, schematic.tabs group, lepton-schematic configuration, lepton-schematic configuration
@subsubsection @code{schematic.gui} group
@cindex schematic.gui group

@multitable @columnfractions .15 .15 .15 .55
@headitem Name @tab Type @tab Default value @tab Description

@item @cfgkey{use-docks}
@tab @cfgtype{boolean}
@tab @cfgval{false}
@tab
@anchor{use-docks}
How to display widgets: as dialogs (@cfgval{false}) or inside the dock
widgets (@cfgval{true}).

@item @cfgkey{use-tabs}
@tab @cfgtype{boolean}
@tab @cfgval{true}
@tab
@anchor{use-tabs}
Whether to use tabbed GUI: display each schematic in its own tab
within GtkNotebook widget.

@item @cfgkey{font}
@tab @cfgtype{string}
@tab @cfgval{""} (empty string)
@tab
The name of the font to be used to draw text in schematics.  For
example: @samp{font=OpenGost Type B TT Regular}

@item @cfgkey{text-sizes}
@tab @cfgtype{list of @code{string}s}
@tab @cfgval{empty list}
@tab
If set, these values will appear in the 'size' combo box of the 'Add
text' and 'Edit text' dialogs instead of the default ones (set in
@file{gschem_toplevel.c}: 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 14, 16, 18, 20, 22, 24,
26). For example: @samp{text-sizes=2;3;4;5;6;8}

@item @cfgkey{max-recent-files}
@tab @cfgtype{integer}
@tab @cfgval{10}
@tab
@anchor{max-recent-files}
Maximum number of recent files to show in `File->Open Recent` menu.

@item @cfgkey{title-show-path}
@tab @cfgtype{boolean}
@tab @cfgval{false}
@tab
Whether to show full file path in the main window's title.

@item @cfgkey{restore-window-geometry}
@tab @cfgtype{boolean}
@tab @cfgval{true}
@tab
Whether to restore main window's size and position on startup.

@item @cfgkey{draw-grips}
@tab @cfgtype{boolean}
@tab @cfgval{true}
@tab
@anchor{draw-grips}
Controls if the editing grips are drawn when selecting objects.
@since{1.9.10}

@item @cfgkey{toolbars}
@tab @cfgtype{boolean}
@tab @cfgval{true}
@tab
@anchor{toolbars}
Controls if the toolbars are visible or not.  @since{1.9.10}

@item @cfgkey{scrollbars}
@tab @cfgtype{boolean}
@tab @cfgval{true}
@tab
@anchor{scrollbars}
Controls if the scrollbars are visible or not.  @since{1.9.10}

@item @cfgkey{handleboxes}
@tab @cfgtype{boolean}
@tab @cfgval{true}
@tab
@anchor{handleboxes}
Controls if the handleboxes for the menu and toolbars are visible or
not.  @since{1.9.10}

@item @cfgkey{zoom-with-pan}
@tab @cfgtype{boolean}
@tab @cfgval{true}
@tab
@anchor{zoom-with-pan}
Sets the zoom functions to pan the display and then zoom.
@since{1.9.10}

@item @cfgkey{fast-mousepan}
@tab @cfgtype{boolean}
@tab @cfgval{false}
@tab
@anchor{fast-mousepan}
Controls if text is drawn properly or if a simplified version (a text
string bounding box) is drawn during mouse pan. Drawing a simple box
speeds up mousepan a lot for big schematics.  @since{1.9.10}

@item @cfgkey{continue-component-place}
@tab @cfgtype{boolean}
@tab @cfgval{true}
@tab
@anchor{continue-component-place}
Controls the behavior of the "Select Component..." dialog. Allows to
place multiple instances of a component without having to press the
"Apply" button each time.  @since{1.9.10}

@item @cfgkey{file-preview}
@tab @cfgtype{boolean}
@tab @cfgval{true}
@tab
@anchor{file-preview}
Controls if the preview area in the File Open/Save As dialog boxes is
enabled.  @since{1.9.10}

@item @cfgkey{enforce-hierarchy}
@tab @cfgtype{boolean}
@tab @cfgval{true}
@tab
@anchor{enforce-hierarchy}
Controls if the movement between hierarchy levels of the same
underlying schematics is allowed or not. If this is enabled, then the
user cannot (without using the page manager) move between hierarchy
levels. Otherwise, the user sees all the hierarchy levels as being
flat.  @since{1.9.10}

@item @cfgkey{third-button-cancel}
@tab @cfgtype{boolean}
@tab @cfgval{true}
@tab
@anchor{third-button-cancel}
Controls if the third mouse button cancels draw actions such as
placing of a component or drawing of a primitive.  @since{1.9.10}

@item @cfgkey{warp-cursor}
@tab @cfgtype{boolean}
@tab @cfgval{false}
@tab
@anchor{warp-cursor}
Controls if the cursor is warped (moved) when you zoom in and out.
@since{1.9.10}

@item @cfgkey{force-boundingbox}
@tab @cfgtype{boolean}
@tab @cfgval{false}
@tab
@anchor{force-boundingbox}
Controls if the entire bounding box of a symbol is used when figuring
out which end of the pin is considered the active port.  This option
is for backward compatibility with old schematic file format.
@since{1.9.10}

@item @cfgkey{net-direction-mode}
@tab @cfgtype{boolean}
@tab @cfgval{true}
@tab
@anchor{net-direction-mode}
Guess the best continuation direction of an L-shape net when adding a
net.  @since{1.9.10}

@item @cfgkey{embed-components}
@tab @cfgtype{boolean}
@tab @cfgval{false}
@tab
@anchor{embed-components}
Determines if the newly placed components are embedded in the
schematic.  @since{1.9.10}

@item @cfgkey{netconn-rubberband}
@tab @cfgtype{boolean}
@tab @cfgval{true}
@tab
@anchor{netconn-rubberband}
Maintain net connections when you move a connected component or net.
@since{1.9.10}

@item @cfgkey{magnetic-net-mode}
@tab @cfgtype{boolean}
@tab @cfgval{true}
@tab
@anchor{magnetic-net-mode}
Whether to mark a possible connection that is close to the current
cursor position when drawing a net.  @since{1.9.10}

@item @cfgkey{zoom-gain}
@tab @cfgtype{int}
@tab @cfgval{20}
@tab
@anchor{zoom-gain}
The percentage size increase/decrease when zooming in/out with the
mouse wheel. Negative values reverses the direction.  @since{1.9.10}

@item @cfgkey{mousepan-gain}
@tab @cfgtype{int}
@tab @cfgval{1}
@tab
@anchor{mousepan-gain}
Controls how much the display pans when using mouse. A larger value
provides greater pan distance when moving the mouse.  @since{1.9.10}

@item @cfgkey{keyboardpan-gain}
@tab @cfgtype{int}
@tab @cfgval{20}
@tab
@anchor{keyboardpan-gain}
Controls how much the display pans when using the keyboard keys.  A
larger value provides greater pan distance.  @since{1.9.10}

@item @cfgkey{select-slack-pixels}
@tab @cfgtype{int}
@tab @cfgval{10}
@tab
@anchor{select-slack-pixels}
Controls how many pixels around an object can still be clicked as part
of that object. A larger value gives greater ease in selecting small,
or narrow objects.  @since{1.9.10}

@item @cfgkey{text-size}
@tab @cfgtype{int}
@tab @cfgval{10}
@tab
@anchor{text-size}
Sets the default text size.  @since{1.9.10}

@item @cfgkey{snap-size}
@tab @cfgtype{int}
@tab @cfgval{10}
@tab
@anchor{snap-size}
Sets the default grid spacing.  @since{1.9.10}

@item @cfgkey{scrollpan-steps}
@tab @cfgtype{int}
@tab @cfgval{8}
@tab
@anchor{scrollpan-steps}
Controls the number of scroll pan events required to traverse the
viewed schematic area.  Larger numbers mean more scroll steps are
required to pan across the viewed area and giving finer control over
positioning.  @since{1.9.10}

@item @cfgkey{dots-grid-dot-size}
@tab @cfgtype{int}
@tab @cfgval{1}
@tab
@anchor{dots-grid-dot-size}
Controls the size of the grid dots (in pixels) in the dots grid
display.  @since{1.9.10}

@item @cfgkey{dots-grid-fixed-threshold}
@tab @cfgtype{int}
@tab @cfgval{10}
@tab
@anchor{dots-grid-fixed-threshold}
Specifies the minimum number of pixels for the grid to be displayed.
Controls the density of the displayed grid (smaller numbers will cause
the grid to be drawn denser).  This option is only effective when the
dots-grid-mode is set to "fixed".  @since{1.9.10}

@item @cfgkey{mesh-grid-display-threshold}
@tab @cfgtype{int}
@tab @cfgval{3}
@tab
@anchor{mesh-grid-display-threshold}
Specifies the minimum line pitch for the grid to be displayed.
Controls the maximum density of the displayed grid before the minor,
then the major grid lines are switched off.  @since{1.9.10}

@item @cfgkey{action-feedback-mode}
@tab @cfgtype{string}
@tab @cfgval{outline}
@tab
@anchor{action-feedback-mode}
Possible values: @cfgval{outline}, @cfgval{boundingbox}.  Sets the
default action feedback mode for copy, move, and component place
operations.  When set to @cfgval{boundingbox}, just a box surrounding
objects is drawn, which is much faster. It may help with slow
hardware.  @since{1.9.10}

@item @cfgkey{text-caps-style}
@tab @cfgtype{string}
@tab @cfgval{both}
@tab
@anchor{text-caps-style}
Possible values: @cfgval{both}, @cfgval{lower}, @cfgval{upper}.  Sets the
default caps style used for the input of text.  @since{1.9.10}

@item @cfgkey{middle-button}
@tab @cfgtype{string}
@tab @cfgval{mousepan}
@tab
@anchor{middle-button}
Possible values: @cfgval{mousepan}, @cfgval{popup}, @cfgval{action},
@cfgval{stroke}, @cfgval{repeat}.  Controls what the middle mouse
button does:
@itemize @minus
@item
@cfgval{mousepan}: mouse panning
@item
@cfgval{popup}: display the popup menu
@item
@cfgval{action}: perform an action on a single object
@item
@cfgval{stroke}: draw strokes
@item
@cfgval{repeat}: repeat the last command
@end itemize
@since{1.9.10}

@item @cfgkey{third-button}
@tab @cfgtype{string}
@tab @cfgval{popup}
@tab
@anchor{third-button}
Possible values: @cfgval{popup}, @cfgval{mousepan}.  Controls what the
third mouse button does:
@itemize
@item
@cfgval{popup}: display the popup menu
@item
@cfgval{mousepan}: mouse panning
@end itemize
@since{1.9.10}

@item @cfgkey{scroll-wheel}
@tab @cfgtype{string}
@tab @code{classic}
@tab
@anchor{scroll-wheel}
Possible values: @cfgval{classic}, @cfgval{gtk}.
Controls the binding of the mouse scroll wheel:
@itemize
@item
@cfgval{classic}: zoom in/out, with @key{CTRL} -- horizontal scroll,
with @key{SHIFT} -- vertical scroll
@item
@cfgval{gtk}: vertical scroll, with @key{SHIFT} -- horizontal scroll,
with @key{CTRL} -- zoom in/out
@end itemize
@since{1.9.10}

@item @cfgkey{grid-mode}
@tab @cfgtype{string}
@tab @cfgval{mesh}
@tab
@anchor{grid-mode}
Possible values: @cfgval{mesh}, @cfgval{dots}, @cfgval{none}.  Sets
the type of the grid.  @since{1.9.10}

@item @cfgkey{dots-grid-mode}
@tab @cfgtype{string}
@tab @cfgval{variable}
@tab
@anchor{dots-grid-mode}
Possible values: @cfgval{variable}, @cfgval{fixed}.  Controls the mode
of the dotted grid.  In the @cfgval{variable} mode, the grid spacing
changes depending on the zoom factor.  In the @cfgval{fixed} mode, the
grid always represents the same number of units as the
snap-spacing. You can control the density of the grid using the
@cfgkey{dots-grid-fixed-threshold} option.  @since{1.9.10}

@item @cfgkey{net-selection-mode}
@tab @cfgtype{string}
@tab @cfgval{enabled_net}
@tab
@anchor{net-selection-mode}
Possible values: @cfgval{enabled_net}, @cfgval{enabled_all},
@cfgval{disabled}.  Controls how many net segments are selected when
you click at a net:

@itemize
@item
@cfgval{enabled_all}:
@itemize @minus
@item
first click selects the net itself
@item
second click selects all nets directly connected to the selected one
@item
third click in addition selects all nets with equal @samp{netname}
attributes
@end itemize

@item
@cfgval{enabled_net}:
@itemize @minus
@item
first click selects the net itself
@item
second click selects all nets directly connected to the selected one
@end itemize

@item
@cfgval{disabled}:
@itemize @minus
@item
mouse clicks just selects the clicked net
@end itemize
@end itemize
@since{1.9.10}


@item @cfgkey{default-titleblock}
@tab @cfgtype{string}
@tab @cfgval{title-B.sym}
@tab
@anchor{default-titleblock}
Symbol (usually, a title block) to be automatically added when a new
page is created.  If you do not want to use a title block, set this
option to an empty string.  @since{1.9.10}

@item @cfgkey{use-toplevel-windows}
@tab @cfgtype{boolean}
@tab @cfgval{false}
@tab
When docking windows GUI is off, allow the following widgets to act as
top-level windows (do not stay on top of the main window):
@itemize @minus
@item
Object properties
@item
Text properties
@item
Options
@item
Log
@item
Find text results
@item
Page manager
@item
Font selector
@item
Color scheme editor
@end itemize
@since{1.9.11}

@item @cfgkey{small-placeholders}
@tab @cfgtype{boolean}
@tab @cfgval{true}
@tab
Draw either new (smaller) placeholders for missing schematic symbols
(@cfgval{true}), or classic ones (giant red triangles with an
exclamation mark and two lines of text) if this option is set to
@cfgval{false}.  @since{1.9.11}

@end multitable


@node schematic.tabs group, schematic.status-bar group, schematic.gui group, lepton-schematic configuration
@subsubsection @code{schematic.tabs} group
@cindex schematic.tabs group

@multitable @columnfractions .15 .15 .15 .55
@headitem Name @tab Type @tab Default value @tab Description

@item @cfgkey{show-close-button}
@tab @cfgtype{boolean}
@tab @cfgval{true}
@tab
Whether to show "close" button on each tab.

@item @cfgkey{show-up-button}
@tab @cfgtype{boolean}
@tab @cfgval{true}
@tab
Whether to show "hierarchy up" button on each tab.

@item @cfgkey{show-tooltips}
@tab @cfgtype{boolean}
@tab @cfgval{true}
@tab
Whether to show tabs tooltips in tabbed GUI.  @since{1.9.10}

@end multitable


@node schematic.status-bar group, schematic.undo group, schematic.tabs group, lepton-schematic configuration
@subsubsection @code{schematic.status-bar} group
@cindex schematic.status-bar group

@multitable @columnfractions .15 .15 .15 .55
@headitem Name @tab Type @tab Default value @tab Description

@item @cfgkey{show-mouse-buttons}
@tab @cfgtype{boolean}
@tab @cfgval{false}
@tab
Whether to show mouse buttons assignment indicators.

@item @cfgkey{show-rubber-band}
@tab @cfgtype{boolean}
@tab @cfgval{true}
@tab
Whether to show net rubber band mode indicator.

@item @cfgkey{show-magnetic-net}
@tab @cfgtype{boolean}
@tab @cfgval{true}
@tab
Whether to show magnetic net mode indicator.

@item @cfgkey{status-bold-font}
@tab @cfgtype{boolean}
@tab @cfgval{false}
@tab
Whether to display the status line with bolder font weight.

@item @cfgkey{status-active-color}
@tab @cfgtype{string}
@tab @cfgval{"green"}
@tab
Color to use for the status line text when some mode is activated.
The string can be either one of a set of standard names (taken from
the X11 @file{rgb.txt} file), or a hex value in the form
@cfgval{#rrggbb}.

@end multitable


@node schematic.undo group, schematic.log-window group, schematic.status-bar group, lepton-schematic configuration
@subsubsection @code{schematic.undo} group
@cindex schematic.undo group

@multitable @columnfractions .15 .15 .15 .55
@headitem Name @tab Type @tab Default value @tab Description

@item @cfgkey{modify-viewport}
@tab @cfgtype{boolean}
@tab @cfgval{false}
@tab
Allow undo/redo operations to change pan and zoom.

@item @cfgkey{undo-control}
@tab @cfgtype{boolean}
@tab @cfgval{true}
@tab
@anchor{undo-control}
Controls if the undo is enabled or not.  @since{1.9.10}

@item @cfgkey{undo-type}
@tab @cfgtype{string}
@tab @cfgval{disk}
@tab
@anchor{undo-type}
Possible values: @cfgval{disk}, @cfgval{memory}.  Controls what kind
of medium is used for storing undo data.  The @cfgval{disk} mechanism
is nice because you get undo-level number of backups of the schematic
written to disk as backups so you should never lose a schematic due to
a crash.  @since{1.9.10}

@item @cfgkey{undo-levels}
@tab @cfgtype{int}
@tab @cfgval{20}
@tab
@anchor{undo-levels}
Determines the number of levels of undo.  @since{1.9.10}

@item @cfgkey{undo-panzoom}
@tab @cfgtype{boolean}
@tab @cfgval{false}
@tab
@anchor{undo-panzoom}
Controls if pan or zoom commands are saved in the undo list. If this
is enabled, then a pan or zoom will be considered a command and can be
undone.  @since{1.9.10}

@end multitable


@node schematic.log-window group, schematic.macro-widget group, schematic.undo group, lepton-schematic configuration
@subsubsection @code{schematic.log-window} group
@cindex schematic.log-window group

@multitable @columnfractions .15 .15 .15 .55
@headitem Name @tab Type @tab Default value @tab Description

@item @cfgkey{font}
@tab @cfgtype{string}
@tab @cfgval{"Monospace 11"}
@tab
Custom font for the log window (e.g. @cfgval{"Monospace 10"}).

@end multitable


@node schematic.macro-widget group, schematic group, schematic.log-window group, lepton-schematic configuration
@subsubsection @code{schematic.macro-widget} group
@cindex schematic.macro-widget group

@multitable @columnfractions .15 .15 .15 .55
@headitem Name @tab Type @tab Default value @tab Description

@item @cfgkey{history-length}
@tab @cfgtype{integer}
@tab @cfgval{10}
@tab
Maximum number of items to keep in the macro-widget command history.

@item @cfgkey{font}
@tab @cfgtype{string}
@tab @cfgval{"Monospace 11"}
@tab
Font to be used to draw text in the macro-widget command entry. For
example:
@example
font=Monospace 12
@end example

@end multitable


@node schematic group, schematic.library group, schematic.macro-widget group, lepton-schematic configuration
@subsubsection @code{schematic} group
@cindex schematic group

@since{1.9.10}
Before 1.9.10 it was @code{gschem} group.

@multitable @columnfractions .15 .15 .15 .55
@headitem Name @tab Type @tab Default value @tab Description

@item @cfgkey{default-filename}
@tab @cfgtype{string}
@tab @cfgval{"untitled"}
@tab
@anchor{default-filename}
Default file name for any new schematic files.  It is used to create
filenames of the form @file{untitled_N.sch} where @cfgval{N} is a
number.


@item @cfgkey{bus-ripper-size}
@tab @cfgtype{int}
@tab @cfgval{200}
@tab
@anchor{bus-ripper-size}
Sets the size of the auto bus rippers.  @since{1.9.10}

@item @cfgkey{bus-ripper-type}
@tab @cfgtype{string}
@tab @cfgval{component}
@tab
@anchor{bus-ripper-type}
Possible values: @cfgval{component}, @cfgval{net}.  Sets the bus
ripper type, either a symbol (@cfgval{component}) or plain net.
@since{1.9.10}

@item @cfgkey{bus-ripper-symname}
@tab @cfgtype{string}
@tab @cfgval{busripper-1.sym}
@tab
@anchor{bus-ripper-symname}
The default bus ripper symbol, used when the
@cfgkey{schematic::bus-ripper-type} configuration key is set to
@cfgval{"component"}.  The symbol must exist in a component library.
@since{1.9.10}

@item @cfgkey{bus-ripper-rotation}
@tab @cfgtype{string}
@tab @cfgval{non-symmetric}
@tab
@anchor{bus-ripper-rotation}
Possible values: @cfgval{non-symmetric}, @cfgval{symmetric}.  This
deals with how the bus ripper symbol is rotated when it is auto added
to a schematic.  @since{1.9.10}

@item @cfgkey{net-consolidate}
@tab @cfgtype{boolean}
@tab @cfgval{true}
@tab
@anchor{net-consolidate}
Controls if the net consolidation code is used when schematics are
read in, written to disk, and when nets are being drawn (does not
consolidate when things are being copied or moved yet).  Net
consolidation is the connection of nets which can be combined into
one.  @since{1.9.10}

@item @cfgkey{logging}
@tab @cfgtype{boolean}
@tab @cfgval{true}
@tab
@anchor{logging}
Determines if the logging mechanism is enabled.  @since{1.9.10}

@item @cfgkey{log-window}
@tab @cfgtype{string}
@tab @cfgval{later}
@tab
@anchor{log-window}
Possible values: @cfgval{later}, @cfgval{startup} Controls if the log
window is shown when lepton-schematic is started up
(@cfgval{startup}), or not (@cfgval{later}).  @since{1.9.10}

@item
@cfgkey{auto-save-interval}
@tab @cfgtype{int}
@tab @cfgval{120}
@tab
@anchor{auto-save-interval}
Controls how often a backup copy is made, in seconds.  The backup copy
is made when you make some change to the schematic, and there were
more than "interval" seconds from the last autosave.  Autosaving will
not be allowed if setting it to zero.  @since{1.9.10}

@end multitable


@node schematic.library group, schematic.printing group, schematic group, lepton-schematic configuration
@subsubsection @code{schematic.library} group
@cindex schematic.library group

@since{1.9.10}
Before 1.9.10 it was @code{gschem.library} group.

@multitable @columnfractions .15 .15 .15 .55
@headitem Name @tab Type @tab Default value @tab Description

@item @cfgkey{component-attributes}
@tab @cfgtype{string list}
@tab @cfgval{*}
@tab
@anchor{component-attributes}
List of attribute names (semicolon-separated) that are displayed in
the component select dialog.  An empty list will disable the attribute
view.  If the first list element is an asterisk (@samp{*}), all
attributes will be displayed in the alphabetical order.

@item @cfgkey{sort}
@tab @cfgtype{boolean}
@tab @cfgval{false}
@tab
@anchor{sort}
If @cfgval{true}, the component libraries are sorted alphabetically.
Otherwise they are sorted in the order opposite to what they were
added in.

@end multitable


@node schematic.printing group, schematic.backup group, schematic.library group, lepton-schematic configuration
@subsubsection @code{schematic.printing} group
@cindex schematic.printing group

@since{1.9.10}
Before 1.9.10 it was @code{gschem.printing} group.

@multitable @columnfractions .15 .15 .15 .55
@headitem Name @tab Type @tab Default value @tab Description

@item @cfgkey{layout}
@tab @cfgtype{string}
@tab @cfgval{auto}
@tab
@anchor{layout}
Possible values: @cfgval{auto}, @cfgval{portrait}, @cfgval{landscape}.
When using a paper size, set the orientation of the output.  If
@cfgval{auto} layout is used, the orientation that best fits the
drawing will be used.

@item @cfgtype{monochrome}
@tab @cfgtype{boolean}
@tab @cfgval{false}
@tab
@anchor{monochrome}
Toggle monochrome (@cfgval{true}) or color (@cfgval{false}) output.

@item @cfgkey{paper}
@tab @cfgtype{string}
@tab @cfgval{"iso_a4"}
@tab
@anchor{paper}
Size the output for a particular paper size.  The default value
depends on the current locale.  Described in the PWG 5101.1 standard
(Printer Working Group @url{http://www.pwg.org/standards.html#s5101,
"Media Standardized Names"}).  Examples: @cfgval{iso_a4},
@cfgval{iso_a5}, @cfgval{na_letter}.

@end multitable


@node schematic.backup group, schematic.attrib group, schematic.printing group, lepton-schematic configuration
@subsubsection @code{schematic.backup} group
@cindex schematic.backup group

@since{1.9.10}

@multitable @columnfractions .15 .15 .15 .55
@headitem Name @tab Type @tab Default value @tab Description

@item @cfgkey{create-files}
@tab @cfgtype{boolean}
@tab @cfgval{true}
@tab
@anchor{create-files}
Enable the creation of backup files (@file{NAME.sch~}) when saving a
schematic.  @since{1.9.10}

@end multitable


@node schematic.attrib group,  , schematic.backup group, lepton-schematic configuration
@subsubsection @code{schematic.attrib} group
@cindex schematic.attrib group

@since{1.9.10}

The parameters in this group replace the deprecated options used
to be set in @file{gafrc} files.

@multitable @columnfractions .15 .15 .15 .55
@headitem Name @tab Type @tab Default value @tab Description


@item @cfgkey{promote}
@tab @cfgtype{boolean}
@tab @cfgval{true}
@tab
@anchor{promote}
Former @file{gafrc} option: @cfgkey{attribute-promotion}.  Set if
attribute promotion occurs when you instantiate a component.
Attribute promotion means that any floating (unattached) attribute
which is inside a symbol gets attached to the newly inserted component
when it is instantiated.  @since{1.9.10}

@item @cfgkey{always-promote}
@tab @cfgtype{string list}
@tab @cfgval{footprint;device;value;model-name}
@tab
@anchor{always-promote}
Former @file{gafrc} option: @cfgkey{always-promote-attributes}.  The
list of attributes that are always promoted regardless of their
visibility.  @since{1.9.10}

@item @cfgkey{promote-invisible}
@tab @cfgtype{boolean}
@tab @cfgval{false}
@tab
@anchor{promote-invisible}
Former @file{gafrc} option: @cfgkey{promote-invisible}.  Set if
invisible floating attributes are promoted when a component is
instantiated.  @since{1.9.10}

@item
@cfgkey{keep-invisible}
@tab @cfgtype{boolean}
@tab @cfgval{true}
@tab
@anchor{keep-invisible}
Former @file{gafrc} option: @cfgkey{keep-invisible}.  Do not change
this option. Here's the original description from the
@file{system-gafrc} file:
@quotation
If both @cfgkey{attribute-promotion} and @cfgkey{promote-invisible}
are enabled, then this controls if invisible floating attributes are
kept around in memory and NOT deleted. Having this enabled will keeps
component slotting working. If @cfgkey{attribute-promotion} and
@cfgkey{promote-invisible} are enabled and this keyword is disabled,
then component slotting will NOT work (and maybe other functions which
depend on hidden attributes, since those attributes are deleted from
memory).  @since{1.9.10}
@end quotation

@item
@cfgkey{symbol-attribs}
@tab @cfgtype{string list}
@tab
@cfgval{netname;footprint;value;refdes;
source;model-name;model;net;
device;numslots;slot;slotdef;
graphical;description;documentation;symversion;
comment;author;dist-license;use-license;file}
@tab
Formerly the attribute names were given by using the @file{gafrc}
keyword @cfgkey{attribute-name} several time in the file.  Do not use
this keyword any more.

The list specifies attributes presented in the @samp{Add attribute}
and @samp{Edit attribute} dialogs.  The user can add any attributes
which should be listed there.  The default names are specific for
symbols and nets.  Use @cfgkey{pin-attribs} for pins.  While for now
both lists are displayed together, this may change in future.  The
attribute names are case sensitive.  The order of the names in the
list determines the order they are displayed.

@quotation Note
The attribute names from parent configuration contexts are not
inherited and will be overridden by the child context value.  If the
user will specify, e.g., @cfgval{foo;bar} here, only these two names
are displayed.
@end quotation

@since{1.9.12}

@item
@cfgkey{pin-attribs}
@tab @cfgtype{string list}
@tab @cfgval{pinnumber;pinseq;pintype;pinlabel}
@tab
The same as @cfgkey{symbol-attribs} but for pin attribute names.  The
attribute names are displayed in the @samp{Add attribute} and
@samp{Edit attribute} dialogs along with names specified in that key.
All notes about the @cfgkey{symbol-attribs} keyword are applicable
here, too.

@since{1.9.12}

@end multitable


@node lepton-netlist configuration, lepton-cli configuration, lepton-schematic configuration, Configuration of Lepton tools
@subsection @command{Configuration of lepton-netlist}
@cindex lepton-netlist configuration

@menu
* netlist group::
* netlist.hierarchy group::
@end menu

@node netlist group, netlist.hierarchy group, lepton-netlist configuration, lepton-netlist configuration
@subsubsection @code{netlist} group
@cindex netlist group

@since{1.9.10}
Before 1.9.10 it was @code{gnetlist} group.

@multitable @columnfractions .15 .15 .15 .55
@headitem Name @tab Type @tab Default value @tab Description

@item @cfgkey{default-net-name}
@tab @cfgtype{string}
@tab @cfgval{"unnamed_net"}
@tab
@anchor{default-net-name}
Default name used for nets for which the user has set no explicit name
via the @attr{netname=} or @attr{net=} attributes.

@item @cfgkey{default-bus-name}
@tab @cfgtype{string}
@tab @cfgval{"unnamed_bus"}
@tab
@anchor{default-bus-name}
Default name used for buses for which the user has set no explicit
name.  Buses are still not used in @netlist.

@item @cfgkey{net-naming-priority}
@tab @cfgtype{string}
@tab @cfgval{net-attribute}
@tab
@anchor{net-naming-priority}
Possible values: @cfgval{net-attribute}, @cfgval{netname-attribute}.
Specify which attribute, @attr{net} or @attr{netname}, has
priority if a net is found with two names. Any netname conflict will
be resolved using the chosen attribute.

@end multitable


@node netlist.hierarchy group,  , netlist group, lepton-netlist configuration
@subsubsection @code{netlist.hierarchy} group
@cindex netlist.hierarchy group

Before 1.9.10 it was @code{gnetlist.hierarchy} group.

@multitable @columnfractions .15 .15 .15 .55
@headitem Name @tab Type @tab Default value @tab Description
@item @cfgkey{traverse-hierarchy}
@tab @cfgtype{boolean}
@tab @cfgval{true}
@tab
@anchor{traverse-hierarchy}
Turn on/off hierarchy processing.

@item @cfgkey{mangle-refdes-attribute}
@tab @cfgtype{boolean}
@tab @cfgval{true}
@tab
@anchor{mangle-refdes-attribute}
Whether to mangle sub-schematic's @attr{refdes} attributes.

@item @cfgkey{refdes-attribute-order}
@tab @cfgtype{boolean}
@tab @cfgval{false}
@tab
@anchor{refdes-attribute-order}
While mangling @attr{refdes} attributes, whether to append
(@cfgval{false}) or prepend (@cfgval{true}) sub-schematic's ones.

@item @cfgkey{refdes-attribute-separator}
@tab @cfgtype{string}
@tab @cfgval{"/"}
@tab
@anchor{refdes-attribute-separator}
Separator string used to form mangled @attr{refdes} attribute names.

@item @cfgkey{mangle-netname-attribute}
@tab @cfgtype{boolean}
@tab @cfgval{true}
@tab
@anchor{mangle-netname-attribute}
Whether to mangle sub-schematic's @attr{netname} attributes.

@item @cfgkey{netname-attribute-order}
@tab @cfgtype{boolean}
@tab @cfgval{false}
@tab
@anchor{netname-attribute-order}
While mangling @attr{netname} attributes, whether to append
(@cfgval{false}) or prepend (@cfgval{true}) sub-schematic's ones.

@item @cfgkey{netname-attribute-separator}
@tab @cfgtype{string}
@tab @cfgval{"/"}
@tab
@anchor{netname-attribute-separator}
Separator string used to form mangled @attr{netname} attribute
names.

@item @cfgkey{mangle-net-attribute}
@tab @cfgtype{boolean}
@tab @cfgval{true}
@tab
@anchor{mangle-net-attribute}
Whether to mangle sub-schematic's @attr{net} attributes.

@item @cfgkey{net-attribute-order}
@tab @cfgtype{boolean}
@tab @cfgval{false}
@tab
@anchor{net-attribute-order}
While mangling @samp{net} attributes, whether to append
(@cfgval{false}) or prepend (@cfgval{true}) sub-schematic's ones.

@item @cfgkey{net-attribute-separator}
@tab @cfgtype{string}
@tab @cfgval{"/"}
@tab
@anchor{net-attribute-separator}
Separator string used to form mangled @attr{net} attribute names.

@end multitable


@node lepton-cli configuration,  , lepton-netlist configuration, Configuration of Lepton tools
@subsection @command{Configuration of lepton-cli}
@cindex lepton-cli configuration

The following settings control the behaviour of @command{lepton-cli}
utility when it's invoked with the @code{export} command.

@menu
* export group::
@end menu

@node export group,  , lepton-cli configuration, lepton-cli configuration
@subsubsection @code{export} group
@cindex export group

@multitable @columnfractions .15 .15 .15 .55
@headitem Name @tab Type @tab Default value @tab Description

@item @cfgkey{align}
@tab
list of two doubles in the form @cfgval{HALIGN;VALIGN} or string
@cfgval{auto}
@tab @cfgval{auto}
@tab
Set how the drawing is aligned within the page. @cfgval{HALIGN}
controls the horizontal alignment, and @cfgval{VALIGN} the vertical.
Each alignment value should be in the range 0.0 to 1.0. The
@cfgval{auto} alignment is equivalent to a value of @cfgval{0.5;0.5},
i.e. centered.

@item @cfgkey{dpi}
@tab @cfgtype{integer}
@tab @cfgval{96}
@tab
Set the number of pixels per inch used when generating @samp{PNG}
output.

@item @cfgkey{font}
@tab @cfgtype{string}
@tab @cfgval{"Sans"}
@tab
Set the font to be used for drawing text.

@item @cfgkey{layout}
@tab @cfgtype{string}
@tab @cfgval{auto}
@tab
Possible values: @cfgval{auto}, @cfgval{portrait}, @cfgval{landscape}.
When using a paper size, set the orientation of the output. If
@cfgval{auto} layout is used, the orientation that best fits the
drawing will be used.

@item @cfgkey{margins}
@tab list of four integers in the form @cfgval{TOP;LEFT;BOTTOM;RIGHT}
@tab @cfgval{18;18;18;18}
@tab
Set the widths of the margins to be used (the minimal distances from
the sheet edges; actual margins may be larger if the sizes of the
chosen paper do not meet the sizes of the printed schematic).

@item @cfgtype{monochrome}
@tab @cfgtype{boolean}
@tab @cfgval{false}
@tab
Toggle monochrome (@cfgval{true}) or color (@cfgval{false}) output.

@item @cfgkey{paper}
@tab @cfgtype{string}
@tab @cfgval{"iso_a4"}
@tab
Size the output for a particular paper size.  The default value
depends on the current locale.  Described in the PWG 5101.1 standard
(Printer Working Group @url{http://www.pwg.org/standards.html#s5101,
"Media Standardized Names"}).  Examples: @cfgval{iso_a4},
@cfgval{iso_a5}, @cfgval{na_letter}.

@item @code{size}
@tab
list of two doubles in the form @samp{WIDTH;HEIGHT} or string
@cfgval{auto}
@tab @cfgval{auto}
@tab
Size the output with specific dimensions.  If the size is
@cfgval{auto}, select the size that best fits the drawing.  This
overrides the @code{paper} key (see the previous entry).

@end multitable


@node Deprecated settings, Obsolete settings, Configuration of Lepton tools, Configuration
@section Deprecated settings
@cindex deprecated settings

When running tools from the Lepton EDA suite, you sometimes may see
a warning like this:

@smallexample
WARNING: The RC file function 'hierarchy-uref-separator' is deprecated.
RC configuration functions will be removed in an upcoming Lepton EDA
release. Please use .conf configuration files instead:
https://github.com/lepton-eda/lepton-eda/wiki/Configuration-Settings

Put the following lines into the lepton.conf file (in current directory)
or lepton-user.conf (in user's configuration directory, typically
$HOME/.config/lepton-eda/), replacing MYVALUE with the desired
option's value:

[netlist.hierarchy]
refdes-attribute-separator=MYVALUE
@end smallexample

It means that the option you are trying to set in the @emph{old-style}
configuration file (e.g. @file{gafrc}, @file{gschemrc}) has been
replaced with a new one that should be defined in one of the
@file{*.conf} configuration files, as described in the @ref{New
configuration system, Overview section}.  Old settings are still
valid, but they will be removed in future releases, hence the warning.

@quotation Note
If some option is present in both (new and old) configuration files,
then the value from the old configuration file will take precedence.
@end quotation

Deprecated settings are listed in the tables below (the new settings
in the right column are shown in the form
@code{[group_name]::key_name}).  Also, they can be found in the
@url{https://github.com/lepton-eda/lepton-eda/blob/master/liblepton/scheme/geda-deprecated-config.scm,
geda-deprecated-config.scm} file (look for
@code{define-rc-deprecated-config} entries there).

@subsection Deprecated gafrc settings

The following @file{gafrc} options are deprecated starting with Lepton
EDA release 1.9.10:

@multitable @columnfractions .5 .5

@headitem Old @file{gafrc} file options @tab New options

@item attribute-promotion
@tab @ref{promote}@@[schematic.attrib]
@item always-promote-attributes
@tab @ref{always-promote}@@[schematic.attrib]
@item promote-invisible
@tab @ref{promote-invisible}@@[schematic.attrib]
@item keep-invisible
@tab @ref{keep-invisible}@@[schematic.attrib]
@item bus-ripper-symname
@tab @ref{bus-ripper-symname}@@[schematic]
@item make-backup-files
@tab @ref{create-files}@@[schematic.backup]

@end multitable

@subsection Deprecated gnetlistrc settings

The following @file{gnetlistrc} options are deprecated:

@multitable @columnfractions .5 .5

@headitem Old @file{gnetlistrc} file options @tab New options

@item hierarchy-netattrib-mangle
@tab @ref{mangle-net-attribute}@@[netlist.hierarchy]
@item hierarchy-netattrib-order
@tab @ref{net-attribute-order}@@[netlist.hierarchy]
@item hierarchy-netattrib-separator
@tab @ref{net-attribute-separator}@@[netlist.hierarchy]
@item hierarchy-netname-mangle
@tab @ref{mangle-netname-attribute}@@[netlist.hierarchy]
@item hierarchy-netname-order
@tab @ref{netname-attribute-order}@@[netlist.hierarchy]
@item hierarchy-netname-separator
@tab @ref{netname-attribute-separator}@@[netlist.hierarchy]
@item hierarchy-traversal
@tab @ref{traverse-hierarchy}@@[netlist.hierarchy]
@item hierarchy-uref-mangle
@tab @ref{mangle-refdes-attribute}@@[netlist.hierarchy]
@item hierarchy-uref-order
@tab @ref{refdes-attribute-order}@@[netlist.hierarchy]
@item hierarchy-uref-separator
@tab @ref{refdes-attribute-separator}@@[netlist.hierarchy]
@item net-naming-priority
@tab @ref{net-naming-priority}@@[netlist]
@item unnamed-busname
@tab @ref{default-bus-name}@@[netlist]
@item unnamed-netname
@tab @ref{default-net-name}@@[netlist]

@end multitable

@subsection Deprecated gschemrc settings

The following @file{gschemrc} options are deprecated:

@multitable @columnfractions .5 .5

@headitem Old @file{gschemrc} file options @tab New options

@item component-dialog-attributes
@tab @ref{component-attributes}@@[schematic.library]
@item print-color
@tab @ref{monochrome}@@[schematic.printing]
@item print-orientation
@tab @ref{layout}@@[schematic.printing]
@item print-paper
@tab @ref{paper}@@[schematic.printing]
@item sort-component-library
@tab @ref{sort}@@[schematic.library]
@item untitled-name
@tab @ref{default-filename}@@[schematic]

@end multitable

The following @file{gschemrc} options are deprecated starting with
Lepton EDA release 1.9.10:

@multitable @columnfractions .5 .5

@headitem Old @file{gschemrc} file options @tab New options

@item action-feedback-mode
@tab @ref{action-feedback-mode}@@[schematic.gui]
@item auto-save-interval
@tab @ref{auto-save-interval}@@[schematic]
@item bus-ripper-rotation
@tab @ref{bus-ripper-rotation}@@[schematic]
@item bus-ripper-size
@tab @ref{bus-ripper-size}@@[schematic]
@item bus-ripper-type
@tab @ref{bus-ripper-type}@@[schematic]
@item continue-component-place
@tab @ref{continue-component-place}@@[schematic.gui]
@item default-titleblock
@tab @ref{default-titleblock}@@[schematic.gui]
@item dots-grid-dot-size
@tab @ref{dots-grid-dot-size}@@[schematic.gui]
@item dots-grid-fixed-threshold
@tab @ref{dots-grid-fixed-threshold}@@[schematic.gui]
@item dots-grid-mode
@tab @ref{dots-grid-mode}@@[schematic.gui]
@item draw-grips
@tab @ref{draw-grips}@@[schematic.gui]
@item embed-components
@tab @ref{embed-components}@@[schematic.gui]
@item enforce-hierarchy
@tab @ref{enforce-hierarchy}@@[schematic.gui]
@item fast-mousepan
@tab @ref{fast-mousepan}@@[schematic.gui]
@item file-preview
@tab @ref{file-preview}@@[schematic.gui]
@item force-boundingbox
@tab @ref{force-boundingbox}@@[schematic.gui]
@item grid-mode
@tab @ref{grid-mode}@@[schematic.gui]
@item handleboxes
@tab @ref{handleboxes}@@[schematic.gui]
@item keyboardpan-gain
@tab @ref{keyboardpan-gain}@@[schematic.gui]
@item log-window
@tab @ref{log-window}@@[schematic]
@item logging
@tab @ref{logging}@@[schematic]
@item magnetic-net-mode
@tab @ref{magnetic-net-mode}@@[schematic.gui]
@item mesh-grid-display-threshold
@tab @ref{mesh-grid-display-threshold}@@[schematic.gui]
@item middle-button
@tab @ref{middle-button}@@[schematic.gui]
@item mousepan-gain
@tab @ref{mousepan-gain}@@[schematic.gui]
@item net-consolidate
@tab @ref{net-consolidate}@@[schematic]
@item net-direction-mode
@tab @ref{net-direction-mode}@@[schematic.gui]
@item net-selection-mode
@tab @ref{net-selection-mode}@@[schematic.gui]
@item netconn-rubberband
@tab @ref{netconn-rubberband}@@[schematic.gui]
@item scroll-wheel
@tab @ref{scroll-wheel}@@[schematic.gui]
@item scrollbars
@tab @ref{scrollbars}@@[schematic.gui]
@item scrollpan-steps
@tab @ref{scrollpan-steps}@@[schematic.gui]
@item select-slack-pixels
@tab @ref{select-slack-pixels}@@[schematic.gui]
@item snap-size
@tab @ref{snap-size}@@[schematic.gui]
@item text-caps-style
@tab @ref{text-caps-style}@@[schematic.gui]
@item text-size
@tab @ref{text-size}@@[schematic.gui]
@item third-button
@tab @ref{third-button}@@[schematic.gui]
@item third-button-cancel
@tab @ref{third-button-cancel}@@[schematic.gui]
@item toolbars
@tab @ref{toolbars}@@[schematic.gui]
@item undo-control
@tab @ref{undo-control}@@[schematic.undo]
@item undo-levels
@tab @ref{undo-levels}@@[schematic.undo]
@item undo-panzoom
@tab @ref{undo-panzoom}@@[schematic.undo]
@item undo-type
@tab @ref{undo-type}@@[schematic.undo]
@item warp-cursor
@tab @ref{warp-cursor}@@[schematic.gui]
@item zoom-gain
@tab @ref{zoom-gain}@@[schematic.gui]
@item zoom-with-pan
@tab @ref{zoom-with-pan}@@[schematic.gui]

@end multitable

@node Obsolete settings, Resources, Deprecated settings, Configuration
@section Obsolete settings
@cindex obsolete settings
@cindex obsolete configuration settings

The following @emph{old-style} configuration settings are no longer
used.  An attempt to use them will produce a warning like this:

@smallexample
WARNING: The RC file function 'window-size' is deprecated
and does nothing.
RC configuration functions will be removed in an upcoming Lepton EDA
release. Please use .conf configuration files instead:
https://github.com/lepton-eda/lepton-eda/wiki/Configuration-Settings
@end smallexample

@subsection Obsolete @file{gafrc} file options
@table @samp
@item bitmap-directory
@item postscript-prolog
@item world-size
@end table

@subsection Obsolete @file{gnetlistrc} file options
@table @samp
@item gnetlist-version
@end table

@subsection Obsolete @file{gschemrc} file options
@table @samp
@item add-attribute-offset
@item bus-style
@item image-color
@item image-size
@item line-style
@item log-window-type
@item logging-destination
@item net-endpoint-mode
@item net-midpoint-mode
@item net-style
@item object-clipping
@item output-capstyle
@item output-color
@item output-orientation
@item output-type
@item paper-size
@item paper-sizes
@item pin-style
@item print-command
@item raise-dialog-boxes-on-expose
@item scrollbar-update
@item setpagedevice-orientation
@item setpagedevice-pagesize
@item text-display-zoomfactor
@item text-feedback
@item text-origin-marker
@item window-size
@end table


@node Resources,  , Obsolete settings, Configuration
@section Resources

@menu
* Documentation::
* Web pages::
* Utilities::
* Other resources::
@end menu

@node Documentation, Web pages, Resources, Resources
@subsection Documentation

@itemize
@item
@url{../man/lepton-cli.html,
lepton-cli man page}

@item
@url{../man/lepton-upcfg.html,
lepton-upcfg man page}

@item
@url{https://github.com/lepton-eda/lepton-eda/blob/master/docs/specifications/config-api.txt,
Configuration system specification}

@item
@url{../lepton-scheme.html/index.html, Lepton
EDA Scheme reference manual}, especially
@url{../lepton-scheme.html/Configuration-functions.html,
configuration functions}
@end itemize

@node Web pages, Utilities, Documentation, Resources
@subsection Web pages

@itemize
@item
@url{https://github.com/lepton-eda/lepton-eda, Lepton EDA home page}

@item
@url{http://wiki.geda-project.org, gEDA wiki}

@item
@url{https://graahnul-grom.github.io/, dmn's documentation page},
links and resources for Lepton EDA users and developers

@item
@ref{Communication, Communication channels}
@end itemize

@node Utilities, Other resources, Web pages, Resources
@subsection Utilities
* GUI configuration utility:
@url{https://github.com/graahnul-grom/lepton-conf, lepton-conf}
(@url{https://graahnul-grom.github.io/lepton-conf, home page}).
@command{lepton-conf} has the ability to work with either legacy
(@file{geda*.conf}) or new (@file{lepton*.conf}) configuration files,
which could be helpful in settings upgrade process.

@node Other resources,  , Utilities, Resources
@subsection Other resources (outdated, but may be useful)
@itemize
@item
@url{http://wiki.geda-project.org/geda:gaf_utility, gaf wiki page}
(@command{gaf} is @command{lepton-cli}'s old name)
@item
@url{http://wiki.geda-project.org/geda:gschem_ug, gschem user guide},
and in particular
@url{http://wiki.geda-project.org/geda:gschem_ug:config, configuring
gschem}
@end itemize
