@node PADS backend
@section Forward/backward annotation between Lepton and PADS PowerPCB

by: Dan McMahill

This document is released under
@url{http://www.gnu.org/copyleft/fdl.html, GFDL}

March 6th, 2003

@node Forward annotation to PADS PowerPCB
@subsection Forward annotation of lepton schematic changes to PADS PowerPCB layout

@subsubsection Overview

Forward annotation is the process of updating a layout to reflect
changes made in the schematic.  This process is used when, for
example, a new component is added to a schematic and needs to be
included in the layout.  This section describes how to forward
annotate changes in a Lepton schematic to a PADS PowerPCB layout.

PADS implements forward annotation through the use of an ECO
(Engineering Change Order) file.  The ECO file describes the
differences between a current design and the desired design.  PADS
generates the ECO file by performing a netlist comparison between a
new netlist file and the netlist contained in the current layout.

@subsubsection Detailed forward annotation procedure

This procedure assumes you have a board layout open in PADS and that
you have made your schematic changes in @schematic.  For the purposes
of illustration, assume your schematic is split into two pages in the
files @file{pg1.sch} and @file{pg2.sch}.

@itemize
@item
Create an updated PADS netlist by running:

@code{lepton-netlist -g pads -o mynet.asc pg1.sch pg2.sch}

This will create the netlist file @file{mynet.asc}.

@item
Make a backup copy of your PADS layout in case things fail in a
destructive way.

@item
From within PADS, choose the @clicksequence{Tools @click{} Compare
Netlist} menu item and choose the following options in the form:

@end itemize


@multitable @columnfractions .5 .5
@item
original design to compare @tab use current PCB design
@item
new design with changes @tab mynet.asc
@item
√ @tab generate differences report
@item
√ @tab generate eco file
@item
@item
comparison options
@item
√ @tab compare only ECO registered parts
@item
@item
attribute comparison level
@item
√ @tab ignore all attributes

@end multitable

Click the @samp{OK} button to create the ECO file.

@itemize
@item
Examine the ECO file to make sure it looks ok (the ECO file is a text
file which can be viewed with any text editor).

@item
From within PADS, choose the @clicksequence{File @click{} Import...}
menu item.  Locate and choose the ECO file created previously.

@end itemize

@node Back annotation from PADS PowerPCB
@subsection Back annotation of PADS PowerPCB layout changes to Lepton schematic

Backannotation is the process of updating schematics to reflect
changes made in the layout.  This process is used, for example, when
the reference designators have been renumbered on the layout, when
pins have been swapped (e.g., on an AND gate), or slots have been
swapped (e.g., on a multi-gate package).  This section describes how
to backannotate changes in a PADS PowerPCB layout to a Lepton
schematic.  The PADS PowerPCB tool supports three types of schematic
backannotation:

@enumerate
@item
Reference designator changes.  This is often times used at the end of
a layout to give components which are geographically close a set of
reference designators which are numerically close.

@item
Slot swapping.  This is commonly found in digital designs where there
may be multiple identical gates in a single package.  For example, you
may wish to swap which slot is used in a hex inverter.

@item
Pin swapping.  During layout, the designer may wish to swap equivalent
pins on a chip.  For example, the two inputs on a NAND gate.

@end enumerate

Currently only reference designator changes are automatically
processed by the PADS to @schematic{} backannotation tool.  The slot
and pin swapping changes are provided in a report which the schematic
designer must use to manually correct the schematic.


@subsubsection Detailed backannotation procedure

This procedure assumes you have a board layout open in PADS.  For the
purposes of illustration, assume your schematic is split into two
pages in the files @file{pg1.sch} and @file{pg2.sch}.

@itemize
@item
Create an up to date PADS netlist by running:

@code{lepton-netlist -g pads -o mynet.asc pg1.sch pg2.sch}

This will create the netlist file @file{mynet.asc}.

@item
From within PADS, choose the @clicksequence{Tools @click{} Compare
Netlist} menu item and choose the following options in the form:

@end itemize

@multitable @columnfractions .5 .5
@item
original design to compare @tab mynet.asc
@item
new design with changes @tab use current PCB design
@item
√ @tab generate differences report
@item
√ @tab generate eco file
@item
@item
comparison options
@item
√ @tab compare only ECO registered parts
@item
@item
attribute comparison level
@item
√ @tab ignore all attributes

@end multitable

Click the @samp{OK} button to create the ECO file.

@itemize
@item
Examine the ECO file to make sure it looks ok (the ECO file is a text
file which can be viewed with any text editor).

@item
Make a backup copy of your Lepton schematic files in case things fail
in a destructive way.

@item
Run:

@code{pads_backannotate file.eco pg1.sch pg2.sch | tee backanno.log}

where @file{file.eco} is the name of the ECO file created previously
and @file{pg1.sch} and @file{pg2.sch} are all of your schematic pages.
This will apply the reference designator change portion of the ECO
file and also generate a list of pin and slot swapping which must be
performed by hand.  The file @file{backanno.log} will contain a log of
the session that can be refered to when performing the pin and slot
swapping.

@end itemize
