@node lepton-cli config
@section lepton-cli config
@cindex lepton-cli config

This section describes how to set up Lepton tools with the
@code{lepton-cli config} command.

@code{lepton-cli config} is a basic utility for inspecting and
modifying Lepton EDA configuration stores.

The usage of the command:

@example
lepton-cli config [OPTION] [GROUP KEY [VALUE]]
@end example

If a @var{GROUP} and @var{KEY} are specified, it retrieves the value
of that configuration parameter.  If a @var{VALUE} is specified as
well, it sets the value of that parameter.

The options @option{-p}, @option{-u}, and @option{-s}, listed below,
can be used to select what configuration store should be affected (by
default, the project configuration store for the current working
directory).  If no @var{GROUP} and @var{KEY} are provided, the command
outputs the filename of the selected configuration store.

@table @option
@item -p [@var{PATH}]
@itemx --project[=@var{PATH}]
Select the project configuration store of the project located in
@var{PATH}.  If no @var{PATH} is provided, selects the project in the
current working directory.

@quotation Note
Unlike @option{--project}, for which an optional argument must be
specified using @samp{=}, any argument after @option{-p} is considered
to be a path, not a configuration group.  It may be specified as
@samp{-pPATH} or @samp{-p PATH}.  Please see examples below.
@end quotation

@item -u
@item --user
Select the user configuration store.

@item -s
@itemx --system
Select the system configuration store.  Depending on user permissions,
the system configuration store may be read-only.

@item -c
@item --cache
Select the program-specific configuration store
(@ref{cache-configuration-context, , CACHE configuration context}).

@end table


@subsection Configuration files

Configuration settings used to configure these programs are written to
Lepton config files.  Naming and location of those files, file format,
as well as configuration settings available, are described in the
chapter @ref{Configuration, , Configuration system}.

You can easily find out the location of the configuration files in
your system.  For example, if you want to know where your user
configuration is stored, just type:

@example
lepton-cli config -u
@print{} /home/user/.config/lepton-eda/lepton-user.conf
@end example

Supposed you're a system administrator and want to look where
Lepton's default system settings are stored, do:

@example
lepton-cli config -s
@print{} /usr/local/share/lepton-eda/lepton-system.conf
@end example

Editing the system configuration file will probably require superuser
permissions.  If you want to look up and edit just one of the
settings, you could do, for instance:

@example
lepton-cli config -s export font
@print{} Sans
sudo lepton-cli config -s export font Arial
@end example

The first of the above commands simply reads the file, so it doesn't
require additional permissions.

@quotation Note
Apart from using @cli{} for modifying the files, you can just edit them
manually in your favorite text editor.
@end quotation

All the config files consist of sections, called groups, containing
key-value pairs.

Values of some keys in the Lepton config files are lists.  Note that
unlike the @ref{lepton-cli export} command, where several list
separators can be used, the only separator between list values in the
config files is semicolon @samp{;}.

@quotation Note
Always properly escape semicolons in key values.  Use double quotes or
backslash for that.  Otherwise your shell may interpret your command
wrong.
@end quotation

Another difference between @code{export} and @code{config} commands is
that when using the latter, you always have to specify all parameters
of the used list. Thus, for example, this command is wrong:

@example
lepton-cli config --project export size 1000
@end example

The right command will look like this:

@example
lepton-cli config --project export size "1000;1000"
@end example


@quotation Note
All sizes in the configuration files, and therefore in the
@command{lepton-cli config} command line, @strong{must} be given in
Adobe points (72 points = 1 inch).  Suffixes such as @samp{pt},
@samp{mm}, and others, which can be used with the @ref{lepton-cli
export} command, are not yet supported in the config files.  Fixes are
welcome.
@end quotation

In some cases, your configuration may work wrongly if ever.
While @cli{} supports locales for the @code{export} command, it is not
so for @code{config}.

@quotation Note
It is recommended to always use @emph{dot} (@samp{.}) as decimal point
separator with @cli.
@end quotation


Suppose, for example, that comma is used in your locale as decimal
point separator.  Despite it, the following command results with wrong
values in your project's configuration file, and the config just won't
work properly:

@example
lepton-cli config --project export align "1,0;0,0"
@end example

Unlike it, the following @emph{exporting} command will work OK under
such conditions:

@example
lepton-cli export -a 0,0:1.0 -o file.pdf file.sch
@end example

@subsection lepton-cli config examples

@subsubsection Difference between -p and --project
Please note the difference between specifying the options @option{-p}
and @option{--project}.  Supposed that your @file{lepton.conf} in the
current working directory has the contents as follows:

@example
[export]
dpi=144
@end example

the following commands work as expected:

@example
lepton-cli config --project=. export dpi
@print{} 144
lepton-cli config --project export dpi
@print{} 144
lepton-cli config -p . export dpi
@print{} 144
lepton-cli config -p. export dpi
@print{} 144
@end example

while the following ones are wrong and output errors:

@example
lepton-cli config -p export dpi
@print{} ERROR: Directory "export" does not exist.
lepton-cli config -p=export dpi
@print{} ERROR: Directory "=export" does not exist.
@end example

This is because @emph{any} argument after @option{-p}, be it specified
with space or without it between the option and the argument, is
considered to be a path, not a configuration group, and the equal sign
cannot be used as a separator like for @option{--project}.  Conversely,
the following command:

@example
lepton-cli config --project . export dpi
@end example

will silently exit and result in the following content in
@file{./lepton.conf}:

@example
[.]
export=dpi
@end example

which is not you would expect here, right?  This is because an
optional argument for the option @option{--project} @strong{must} be
used with @samp{=} as separator, not space.  Therefore in the above
command, @samp{.} was interpreted as a configuration group, and
@samp{export} and @samp{dpi} as a key and its value within it.

@subsubsection Set up exporting
Use the ``landscape'' layout by default for a local project:

@example
lepton-cli config --project export layout landscape
@end example

Use the ``letter'' paper size by default for all your printouts:

@example
lepton-cli config --user export paper na_letter
@end example

Set paper size to the definite value of 1x2 inch for a local project:

@example
lepton-cli config --project export size "72;144"
@end example

Set margins as a half of inch for left and right sides and as a
quarter of inch for top and bottom for a local project:

@example
lepton-cli config --project export margins "18;36;18;36"
@end example

This command will align your project's schematics to the right.

@example
lepton-cli config --project export align "1.0;0.5"
@end example

Export schematics in a project in color (note: @samp{False} or
@samp{FALSE} will not work):

@example
lepton-cli config --project export monochrome false
@end example

Set up a custom user font:

@example
lepton-cli config --user export font "OpenGost Type B TT Italic"
@end example

Choose another font for a local project:

@example
lepton-cli config --project export font "Arial Bold"
@end example


@subsubsection Set up netlisting

Use shorter net names for unnamed nets in all netlists:

@example
lepton-cli config --user netlist default-net-name net
@end example

Ensure that a local project will use hierarchical net names despite of
settings in @file{lepton-user.conf}:

@example
lepton-cli config --project netlist.hierarchy traverse-hierarchy true
@end example

Promote @samp{net} attribute over @samp{netname}:

@example
lepton-cli config --project netlist net-naming-priority net-attribute
@end example


@subsubsection Set up lepton-schematic

Use shorter names for new pages:

@example
lepton-cli config --user schematic default-filename empty
@end example


Set up select component widget to always show all attributes:

@example
lepton-cli config --project schematic.library component-attributes "*"
@end example

Please be careful when using this command in the command line. If you
forget the quotes, your shell will substitute the first file name in
the working directory file list for the attribute name. This is most
likely not what you want.

Display only attributes that are in the filter list:

@example
lepton-cli config --project lepton-schematic.library \
  component-attributes "refdes;device;description"
@end example

Please note that if you replace semicolons with commas, @schematic
will consider the string in quotes just one attribute name, which is
obviously wrong, and you will see no attribute at all.

Sort component library in @schematic alphabetically:

@example
lepton-cli config --user schematic.library sort true
@end example
