@node lepton-attrib, lepton-update, lepton-cli, Top
@chapter Spreadsheet attribute editor
@pindex lepton-attrib
@cindex spreadsheet attribute editor

@section Introduction to lepton-attrib

@attrib{} is Lepton's attribute editor.  It reads a set
of schematic files (@file{.sch}), and creates a spreadsheet showing
all components in rows, with the associated component attributes
listed in the columns.  It allows the user to add, modify, or delete
component attributes outside of @command{lepton-schematic}, and then
save the @file{.sch} files back out.  When it is completed, it will
allow the user to edit attributes attached to components.

@attrib{} is useful in situations where you need to
view, add, modify, or delete a number of attributes all at once.  It
saves you the pain of clicking on each component and repeatedly using
@command{lepton-schematic}'s attribute editor to modify component
attributes.  For example, if you create a large design with generic
components, and then later want to attach @code{footprint} attributes
to your components, it is a real hassle to do so using
@command{lepton-schematic}.  In this situation, you can run
@attrib{} on your design files to attach the
@code{footprint} attributes all at once using an easy-to-use
spreadsheet.

@quotation Warning
While @attrib{} has been tested on many designs, it is
not guaranteed to work properly in all cases.  It may even trash your
design!  Therefore, always keep a back-up copy of your design files.
Note that this is good advice when using any software on critical
files.
@end quotation

@menu
* Usage of lepton-attrib::
* lepton-attrib menus::
* Installation of lepton-attrib::
* Credits and history of lepton-attrib::
@end menu

@node Usage of lepton-attrib, lepton-attrib menus, lepton-attrib, lepton-attrib
@section Usage of lepton-attrib

You can invoke @attrib{} on your design from the command
line in the following way:

@example
lepton-attrib file1.sch file2.sch ...
@end example

For example:

@example
lepton-attrib my_design_*.sch
@end example

(This assumes you have a multi-page design with file names
@file{my_design_1.sch}, @file{my_design_2.sch}, etc.)
@attrib{} will then read in your design, and present you
with a spreadsheet showing all components and associated attributes.

You can also just run @attrib{}, and select the input
files in the ``Open'' dialog box.

To edit your attributes, just edit the cells in the spreadsheet.

@node lepton-attrib menus, Installation of lepton-attrib, Usage of lepton-attrib, lepton-attrib
@section lepton-attrib menus

@itemize

@item
@clicksequence{File}

@itemize @minus

@item @clicksequence{File @click{} Save}

Saves your design, that is all schematic files you opened.

@quotation Note
No checks are currently done when you select @clicksequence{Save}.  Be
careful!
@end quotation

@item @clicksequence{File @click{} Export CSV}

Saves out a @acronym{CSV, Comma Separated Values} file, which can
later be imported into a more general spreadsheet editor, e.g. Libre
Office Calc.  This can be useful for @acronym{BOM, Bill Of Materials}
management.

@item @clicksequence{File @click{} Quit}

Quits @attrib.

@quotation Note
Currently no checks that you have saved your design are done when you
quit.
@end quotation

@end itemize @c File

@item
@clicksequence{Edit}

@itemize @minus

@item @clicksequence{Edit @click{} Add new attrib column}

Allows you to add an entirely new attribute to your design (i.e. one
which doesn't exist on any component).

@item @clicksequence{Edit @click{} Delete attrib column}

Allows you to delete an entire attribute column.

@end itemize @c Edit

@item
@clicksequence{Visibility}
@itemize @minus

You can set the visibility of any particular attribute, or an entire
column of attributes through the menu.  Just select the attribute or
column first, then do one of:

@item @clicksequence{Visibility @click{} Set selected invisible}
@item @clicksequence{Visibility @click{} Set selected name visible only}
@item @clicksequence{Visibility @click{} Set selected value visible only}
@item @clicksequence{Visibility @click{} Set selected name and value visible}

Component visibility is indicated by changing the color of the
attribute in each cell.  The following colors are used:

@itemize @c colors
@item Invisible attributes: light grey
@item Name only visible: red
@item Value only visible: black
@item Name and value both visible: blue
@end itemize @c colors

@end itemize @c Visibility

@item
@clicksequence{Help}
@itemize @minus
@item @clicksequence{Help @click{} About}
Opens the ``About'' dialog box.
@end itemize @c Help

@end itemize @c menu

@node Installation of lepton-attrib, Credits and history of lepton-attrib, lepton-attrib menus, lepton-attrib
@section Installation of lepton-attrib

To install @attrib{} from sources, just install Lepton
EDA.  @xref{Installation}.

Installation of @attrib{} can be disabled with the
option @option{--disable-attrib} on the @code{configure} stage:

@example
autoreconf -ivf && ./configure --disable-attrib && make
sudo make install
@end example

Currently, @attrib{} depends on the third-party library
@code{gtkextra} which has to be installed on your system.  On some
systems you also need to install @emph{development packages}
containing C header files necessary for compilation.  For example, on
Debian, you would need @code{libgtkextra-dev}.

If you want to try new GTK3 interface, you have to install another
library, @code{gtksheet}: @url{https://github.com/fpaquet/gtksheet}.
Then use the @option{--with-gtk3} for @code{configure}:

@example
autoreconf -ivf && ./configure --with-gtk3 && make
sudo make install
@end example

If you install Lepton from sources to a place not known for your
system dynamic linker, you may need to set @env{LD_LIBRARY_PATH}
to get it to work.

For example, if you use @code{csh}, do:
@example
setenv LD_LIBRARY_PATH /home/user/lepton/lib:$LD_LIBRARY_PATH
@end example

For @code{bash} and the like shells:
@example
export LD_LIBRARY_PATH=/home/user/lepton/lib:$LD_LIBRARY_PATH
@end example

@node Credits and history of lepton-attrib,  , Installation of lepton-attrib, lepton-attrib
@section Credits and history of lepton-attrib

The original code of @attrib{} under name
@command{gattrib} has been written by Stuart Brorson
(@email{sdb@@cloud9.net}) for the gEDA project.  @command{gattrib} was
cobbled together in December 2003 from parts culled from GtkSheet
(GTK+Extra) and gEDA.
