@node Lepton EDA fonts, Topic Index, net= attribute mini-HOWTO, Top
@appendix Lepton EDA fonts
@cindex Lepton EDA fonts
@cindex Fonts configuration in Lepton EDA

On Linux (and many other Unix systems), font configuring is handled by
@code{Fontconfig}, and modern systems (particularly @code{pango} and
@code{cairo}) rely on this library in looking up any font specified.
You can provide the @cli{} command with a pattern containing the font
name wanted and, optionally, with some settings for that font.
Fontconfig performs matching of the pattern against all the fonts
available in your system. The closest matching font is selected.  This
ensures that a font will always be returned, but doesn't ensure that
it is anything like the requested pattern.

If you want to find out which fonts are available in your system, you
can use the @command{fc-list}(1) utility from the fontconfig package.
To check whether fontconfig could find an appropriate font by the
specified pattern (or to see which font will correspond to your
pattern), use the @command{fc-match}(1) utility.

See the
@url{http://freedesktop.org/software/fontconfig/fontconfig-user.html,
fontconfig documentation} for more information on how to specify the
font name you want to use.

In some circumstances, the font system can even embed more than one
font into your document.  This occurs, for instance, if the most
appropriate font chosen by fontconfig doesn't contain some glyphs for
one of the languages used in the document.  In this case it will add
some other font that does have the glyphs required.

The next table lists possible settings (acquired from the Pango
documentation) which you can use in your font name patterns.  There
are some examples in the @ref{lepton-cli config} section.

@float Table,table:fonts
@caption{Possible font settings}

@multitable @columnfractions .5 .5
@headitem Setting @tab Value

@item
Style
@tab
Normal

Oblique

Italic

@item
Weight
@tab
Thin

Ultralight

Light

Book

Normal

Medium

Semibold

Bold

Ultrabold

Heavy

Ultraheavy

@item
Variant
@tab
Normal

SmallCaps

@item
Stretch @tab  UltraCondensed

ExtraCondensed

Condensed

SemiCondensed

Normal

SemiExpanded

Expanded

ExtraExpanded

UltraExpanded

@end multitable
@end float
