@node lepton-cli export
@section lepton-cli export
@cindex lepton-cli export
@cindex lepton-export

The command @code{lepton-cli export} is used to export schematic and
symbol files in a variety of image formats.  The resulting images can
be then used for printing or embedding into other documents.  It
currently supports single-page PNG, SVG and EPS output, and multi-page
PS and PDF output.  It accepts a variety of options for controlling
how the output is formatted.

@quotation Note
@code{lepton-cli export} can produce multi-page PDF and PS documents
in one go.
@end quotation

To do the real job, the command launches the standalone utility
@command{lepton-export} which can be used instead in any example
below.

Usage:

@example
lepton-cli export [OPTION ...] -o OUTPUT [--] FILE ...
@end example

The command can be used with the options described below.

@table @option
@item -o @var{FILE}
@itemx --output=@var{FILE}
Output generated image data to @var{FILE}.

@item -f @var{FORMAT}
@itemx --format=@var{FORMAT}
Specify an output format.  @var{FORMAT} can be one of @samp{png},
@samp{pdf}, @samp{svg}, @samp{ps}, or @samp{eps}. Usually, this option
is not required, because @cli{} will infer the correct format from the
file extension of the output file.

@item -p @var{NAME}
@itemx --paper=@var{NAME}
Size the output for a particular paper size.  The @var{NAME} should be
a PWG 5101.1-2002 paper name.  For example, valid values include
@samp{iso_a4}, @samp{na_letter}, or @samp{na_d}.  You can use the
@option{--paper-names} option (see below) to obtain all valid names.

@item -P
@itemx --paper-names
Print paper size names suitable to pass to the @option{--paper} option
and exit.

@item -l @var{LAYOUT}
@itemx --layout=@var{LAYOUT}
When using a paper size, set the orientation of the output.
@var{LAYOUT} can be one of @samp{auto}, @samp{landscape}, or
@samp{portrait}.  If @samp{auto} layout is used, @cli{} selects the
orientation that best fits the drawing.

@item -s @var{SIZE}
@itemx --size=@var{SIZE}
Size the output with specific dimensions.  @var{SIZE} can be specified
either as @samp{auto}, or as two numbers in the format
@samp{WIDTH:HEIGHT}.  If the size is @samp{auto}, select the size that
best fits the drawing.

@item -k @var{FACTOR}
@itemx --scale=@var{FACTOR}
Set the output scale @var{FACTOR}. This is a distance identical with
100 points (1 default grid spacing) in @ref{lepton-schematic} coordinate
space. It is used to size the output when neither @option{--paper} nor
@option{--size} are given, and defaults to 100 mil.

@item -m @var{MARGINS}
@itemx --margins=@var{MARGINS}
Set the widths of the margins to be used.  @var{MARGINS} can be
specified either as @samp{auto}, or as a set from one to four numbers
separated by colons.  If @samp{auto} margins are specified, a sensible
default value will be chosen.  Up to four margin widths can be
provided.  If one is provided, it will be used on all four sides.  If
two are provided, the first will be used for the top/bottom and the
second for the left/right.  If three are provided, the first will be
used for the top, the second for left/right, and the third for the
bottom.  This is summarized here:

@multitable {@option{-m TOP:LEFT:BOTTOM:LEFT}} {@expansion{}} {@option{-m TOP:LEFT:BOTTOM:LEFT}}

@item
@option{-m TOP:LEFT:BOTTOM:RIGHT} @tab @tab all widths defined

@item
@option{-m TOP} @tab @expansion{} @tab @option{-m TOP:TOP:TOP:TOP}

@item
@option{-m TOP:LEFT} @tab @expansion{} @tab @option{-m TOP:LEFT:TOP:LEFT}

@item
@option{-m TOP:LEFT:BOTTOM} @tab @expansion{} @tab @option{-m TOP:LEFT:BOTTOM:LEFT}

@end multitable

@item -a @var{ALIGN}
@itemx --align=@var{ALIGN}
Set how the drawing is aligned within the page.  @var{ALIGN} can be
specified either as @samp{auto}, or as two numbers in the format
@samp{HALIGN:VALIGN}.  @samp{HALIGN} controls the horizontal
alignment, and @samp{VALIGN} the vertical.  Each alignment value
should be in the range 0.0 to 1.0.  The @samp{auto} alignment is
equivalent to a value of @samp{0.5:0.5}, i.e. centered.

@item -d @var{DPI}
@itemx --dpi=@var{DPI}
Set the number of pixels per inch used when generating PNG output.

@item -c
@itemx --color
Enable color output.

@item --no-color
Disable color output.

@item -F @var{FONT-FAMILY}
@itemx --font=@var{FONT-FAMILY}
Set the font to be used for drawing text.

@item -h
@itemx --help
Display usage information of the command @code{lepton-cli export} and
exit.

@item --
Treat all remaining arguments as schematic or symbol filenames.  Use
this if you have a schematic or symbol filename which begins with
@samp{-}.

@end table

The @option{--size}, @option{--margins}, or @option{--scale} options
described above accept values using units of @samp{mm}, @samp{cm},
@samp{in}, @samp{pc}, @samp{px}, or @samp{pt}.  If you do not provide
a unit, points are assumed.  N.b. that @samp{px} are evaluated
relative to the current @option{--dpi} setting.


When using the @option{--size}, @option{--margins}, or
@option{--align} options with multiple values, you may use @samp{;},
or @samp{ } (space) as a separator between them instead of
@samp{:}. In such a case, remember to properly quote your arguments to
avoid them to be interpreted by your shell.
