@node Overview, Installation, Top, Top
@chapter Overview
@cindex overview

Lepton EDA suite is a set of tools that provide schematic capture,
netlisting and export of schematics into several formats, which, in
turn, allows simulation via third party tools and producing PCBs.

The project is over twenty years old, and has matured to the point
where our design tools are suitable for use by students,
professionals, educators, hobbyists, consultants, and anybody who
needs a set of quality EDA tools.

@menu
* List of programs::            The list of programs in the suite.
* Compatibility with geda-gaf::
* Related tools::               Tools related to Lepton EDA
@end menu

@node List of programs, Compatibility with geda-gaf, Overview, Overview
@section The list of programs in the suite
@cindex list of programs

Lepton EDA suite includes tools as follows:

@itemize
@item
lepton-schematic---the main GUI tool for schematic capture
@item
lepton-attrib---spreadsheet schematic attribute editor
@item
lepton-netlist---a tool for making netlists from command line
@item
lepton-cli---a CLI tool providing support of configuration, export, and shell
@item
lepton-config---configure your tools
@item
lepton-export---export schematics to images and multipage documents
@item
lepton-shell---interactive processing of schematic data in Scheme REPL
@item
lepton-archive---project archivation utility
@item
lepton-tragesym---symbol generator
@item
lepton-embed---embed symbols and pictures into schematics
@item
lepton-pcb_backannotate---backannotate changes from PCB to schematic
@item
lepton-refdes_renum---renumber reference designators
@item
lepton-renum---an advanced refdes renumber utility
@item
lepton-sch2pcb---generate PCB layout from a set of schematics
@item
lepton-schdiff---view graphical diff of schematics
@item
lepton-symcheck---check symbol files for errors
@item
lepton-symfix---fix attributes in symbol files
@item
lepton-upcfg---upgrade gEDA config files to be usable in Lepton
@item
lepton-update---update obsolete schematics to the current version
@end itemize

The following contributed tools are not covered in this manual.
Mostly, those are for working with proprietary, often obsolete,
programs, so they are of limited use for most users.  Please see
corresponding man pages for more information.

@itemize
@item
convert_sym---convert a Viewlogic symbol/schematic to @ref{gEDA file
format}.
@item
gmk_sym---create rectangular symbols in @ref{gEDA file format} from a
text file.
@item
olib---OrCAD(tm) library part to gEDA .sym converter.
@item
sarlacc_schem---convert OrCAD SDT IV files to @ref{gEDA file format}.
@item
smash_megafile---break a Viewlogic megafile into a million little
pieces.
@item
gnet_hier_verilog.sh---generate a non-flattened hierarchical Verilog
netlist.
@item
pads_backannotate---process PADS PowerPCB .eco files to backannotate
changes to schematics in @ref{gEDA file format}.
@item
sw2asc---converts a SWITCAP2 output file into ASCII data files that
other tools can read.  @xref{Switcap backend} for more information.
@item
sch2eaglepos.sh---read a schematic in @ref{gEDA file format} and
attempt to extract the relative positions of the components in order
to generate corresponding MOVE instructions for Eagle.
@item
sarlacc_sym---convert OrCAD text libraries to components in @ref{gEDA file
format}.
@end itemize

@node Compatibility with geda-gaf, Related tools, List of programs, Overview
@section Compatibility with geda-gaf
@cindex compatibility with geda-gaf

Lepton EDA is backward compatible with its predecessor @emph{geda-gaf}
and supports the same @ref{gEDA file format} for symbols and
schematics.  We are planning to support it in future since there are
lots of symbols and schematics created using it.  We cannot promise
you to support any change in @emph{geda-gaf} in future.  It's up to
you, our users, to point out what feature you would like to have in
Lepton.


@node Related tools,  , Compatibility with geda-gaf, Overview
@section Related tools
@cindex Related tools

@menu
* Covered::
@end menu

@node Covered,  , Related tools, Related tools
@subsection Covered
@cindex Covered
@cindex verilog code coverage

@url{http://covered.sourceforge.net/index.html,
Covered} is Verilog Code Coverage Analyzer by Trevor Williams.

The project @url{http://covered.sourceforge.net/news.html, is inactive
since 2011}.
