@node Editing symversion attribute
@section Editing symbol version attribute
@cindex edit symversion
@cindex symversion, edit

Symbol version is defined using the @samp{symversion} attribute.  The
attribute value should contain two components in order tools to
process it correctly: major and minor.  So it looks like
@code{major.minor}, for example, @code{1.2}.  It is important to
follow to several simple rules when you are about to edit a symbol and
its version.  Otherwise, the tools won't be able to warn you on
significant changes.  You should remember that @emph{major} changes
are those that may break existing schematics and/or netlists:

@itemize
@item
Addition or removal of pins.
@item
Changing position of connectable ends of pins.
@item
Changes in position of graphics or attributes that lead to moving pins
to other position after translation.
@item
Change of pin attributes that may affect netlist creation.
@end itemize

If you did any of the above changes, please increment the major
version number, especially, if your symbol is shared with other users.

The minor symbol changes are any other that do not break anything.
Those are any changes in graphical stuff such as attribute placement,
new lines in the body rectangle, colors etc. which do not affect the
points mentioned above.  Changing of any internal symbol attribute
won't break your existing schematic, so it is considered minor as
well.  On such changes, please increment the minor symbol version.

If the symbol you edit does not have the @samp{symversion} attribute,
please add it.  Otherwise, Lepton tools won't be able to warn you
about any changes, even breaking.
