@node Title block symbol,  , Symbols, Symbols
@section Title block symbol
@cindex title block symbol
@cindex title block
@cindex title-block symbol
@cindex title-block

The drawing area of @schematic{} is large enough and the users should
have representation of logical extents of the schematics they are
working on.  Title block symbol just aims to graphically define the
bounds of a created schematic page.

Title boxes are usually locked in order to prevent the user from
selecting it accidentally and deleting along with other objects.
Moreover, an unlocked title block would be confusingly selected
instead of other objects within it every now and then.  A title block
symbol is inserted any time the user creates a new schematic.  Since
it is not needed in symbols, you may want to delete it just after new
page creation.  How to achieve that if you cannot select it?  Just use
@emph{box selection} (@pxref{Box selection}), left-click and drag the
selection box to enclose the title block.  Then use the usual deletion
procedure: hit @kbd{Delete} or @kbd{D}.

What to do if you want to change it after adding some contents to your
schematic page?  Well, there are some tricks.  First, you can just
select all page contents excluding locked objects and move it to
another place, then delete the title block as above.  Another way, if
the @ref{gEDA file format} is used, is just deleting title block
definition in the schematic file itself.  It is usually second and
third lines of the file (the first one is the version specification).

For historical reasons, the default title block symbol is
@file{title-B.sym}.  In order to set up another symbol as default
title block, change the @ref{default-titleblock} configuration key.
Choose the symbol you think will be used most often, and fix your
@ref{user-configuration, , user configuration}.  You may want to do
so for some project if only it needs other title blocks.  Amend your
@ref{project-configuration, , project configuration} in such a case.

There are several predefined title block symbols in @schematic.  Open
the Add Component dialog box (@pxref{Add Component widget}) and enter
@kbd{title} in the filter entry to find them.
