.TH gsch2pcb 1 "January 5th, 2011" "gEDA Project" 1.6.1.20100214
.SH NAME
gsch2pcb - Update PCB layouts from gEDA/gaf schematics
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBgsch2pcb\fR [\fIOPTION\fR ...] {\fIPROJECT\fR | \fIFILE\fR ...}
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
\fBgsch2pcb\fR is a frontend to \fBgnetlist\fR(1) which aids in
creating and updating \fBpcb\fR(1) printed circuit board layouts based
on a set of electronic schematics created with \fBgschem\fR(1).

.PP
Instead of specifying all options and input gEDA schematic \fIFILE\fRs
on the command line, \fBgsch2pcb\fR can use a \fIPROJECT\fR file
instead.

.PP
\fBgsch2pcb\fR first runs \fBgnetlist\fR(1) with the `PCB' backend to
create a `<name>.net' file containing a \fBpcb\fR(1) formatted netlist for
the design.

.PP
The second step is to run \fBgnetlist\fR(1) again with the `gsch2pcb'
backend to find any \fBM4\fR(1) elements required by the schematics.
Any missing elements are found by searching a set of file element
directories.  If no `<name>.pcb' file exists for the design yet, it is
created with the required elements; otherwise, any new elements
are output to a `<name>.new.pcb' file.

.PP
If a `<name>.pcb' file exists, it is searched for elements with a
non-empty element name with no matching schematic symbol.  These
elements are removed from the `<name>.pcb' file, with a backup in a
`<name>.pcb.bak' file.

.PP
Finally, \fBgnetlist\fR(1) is run a third time with the `pcbpins'
backend to create a `<name>.cmd' file.  This can be loaded into
\fBpcb\fR(1) to rename all pin names in the PCB layout to match the
schematic.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP 8
\fB-o\fR, \fB--output-name\fR=\fIBASENAME\fR
Use output filenames `\fIBASENAME\fR.net', `\fIBASENAME\fR.pcb', and
`\fIBASENAME\fR.new.pcb'.  By default, the basename of the first
schematic file in the list of input files is used.
.TP 8
\fB-d\fR, \fB--elements-dir\fR=\fIDIRECTORY\fR
Add \fIDIRECTORY\fR to the list of directories to search for PCB file
elements.  By default, the following directories are searched if they
exist: `./packages', `/usr/local/share/pcb/newlib',
`/usr/share/pcb/newlib', `/usr/local/lib/pcb_lib', `/usr/lib/pcb_lib',
`/usr/local/pcb_lib'.
.TP 8
\fB-f\fR, \fB--use-files\fR
Force use of file elements in preference to elements generated with
\fBM4\fR(1).
.TP 8
\fB-s\fR, \fB--skip-m4\fR
Disable element generation using \fBM4\fR(1) entirely.
.TP 8
\fB--m4-file\fR \fIFILE\fR
Use the \fBM4\fR(1) file \fIFILE\fR in addition to the default M4
files `./pcb.inc' and `~/.pcb/pcb.inc'.
.TP 8
\fB--m4-pcbdir\fR \fIDIRECTORY\fR
Set \fIDIRECTORY\fR as the directory where \fBgsch2pcb\fR should look
for \fBM4\fR(1) files installed by \fBpcb\fR(1).
.TP 8
\fB-r\fR, \fB--remove-unfound\fR
Don't include references to unfound elements in the generated `.pcb'
files.  Use if you want \fBpcb\fR(1) to be able to load the
(incomplete) `.pcb' file.  This is enabled by default.
.TP 8
\fB-k\fR, \fB--keep-unfound\fR
Keep include references to unfound elements in the generated `.pcb'
files.  Use if you want to hand edit or otherwise preprocess the
generated `.pcb' file before running \fBpcb\fR(1).
.TP 8
\fB-p\fR, \fB--preserve\fR
Preserve elements in PCB files which are not found in the schematics.
Since elements with an empty element name (schematic "refdes") are
never deleted, this option is rarely useful.
.TP 8
\fB--gnetlist\fR \fIBACKEND\fR
In addition to the default backends, run \fBgnetlist\fR(1) with `-g
\fIBACKEND\fR', with output to `<name>.\fIBACKEND\fR'.
.TP 8
\fB--gnetlist-arg\fR \fIARG\fR
Pass \fIARG\fR as an additional argument to \fBgnetlist\fR(1).
.TP 8
\fB--empty-footprint\fR \fINAME\fR
If \fINAME\fR is not `none', \fBgsch2pcb\fR will not add elements for
components with that name to the PCB file.  Note that if the omitted
components have net connections, they will still appear in the netlist
and \fBpcb\fR(1) will warn that they are missing.
.TP 8
\fB--fix-elements\fR
If a schematic component's `footprint' attribute is not equal to the
`Description' of the corresponding PCB element, update the
`Description' instead of replacing the element.
.TP 8
\fB-q\fR, \fB--quiet\fR
Don't output information on steps to take after running \fBgsch2pcb\fR.
.TP 8
\fB-v\fR, \fB--verbose\fR
Output extra debugging information.  This option can be specified
twice (`-v -v') to obtain additional debugging for file elements.
.TP 8
\fB-h\fR, \fB--help\fR
Print a help message.
.TP 8
\fB-V\fR, \fB--version\fR
Print \fBgsch2pcb\fR version information.

.SH PROJECT FILES
.PP
A \fBgsch2pcb\fR project file is a file (not ending in `.sch')
containing a list of schematics to process and some options.  Any
long-form command line option can appear in the project file with the
leading `--' removed, with the exception of `--gnetlist-arg',
`--fix-elements', `--verbose', and `--version'.  Schematics should be
listed on a line beginning with `schematics'.
.PP
An example project file might look like:

.nf
	schematics partA.sch partB.sch
	output-name design
.ad b

.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP 8
.B GNETLIST
specifies the \fBgnetlist\fR(1) program to run.  The default is
`gnetlist'.

.SH AUTHORS
See the `AUTHORS' file included with this program.

.SH COPYRIGHT
.nf
Copyright \(co 1999-2011 gEDA Contributors.  License GPLv2+: GNU GPL
version 2 or later.  Please see the `COPYING' file included with this
program for full details.
.PP
This is free software: you are free to change and redistribute it.
There is NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.

.SH SEE ALSO
\fBgschem\fR(1), \fBgnetlist\fR(1), \fBpcb\fR(1)
