.TH gsymfix 1 "June 19th, 2011" "gEDA project" 1.7.1.20110619

.SH NAME
gsymfix \- automatically fix common issues with gEDA symbols

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B gsymfix [
.I options
.B ]
.I symbol_file
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B gsymfix
reads a gEDA symbol file and does the following:
.IP \(bu
prints a warning if there is no pinnumber attribute on a pin;
.IP \(bu
Renumbers pinseq attributes on all pins, starting with 1;
.IP \(bu
Adds a pinseq attribute to a pin if none exists;
.IP \(bu
Adds a pinlabel=n_a attribute to a pin if none exists;
.IP \(bu
Adds a pintype=io attribute to a pin if none exists;
.IP \(bu
Adds a numslots=0 attribute to the symbol if none exists;
.IP \(bu
Adds a device=XXX attribute to the symbol if none exists;
.IP \(bu
Adds a footprint=XXX attribute to the symbol if none exists.
.PP
The idea here is to fix common cut-and-paste issues and fix up
the symbol so that it will pass
.BR gsymcheck (1)
with no errors or
warnings.

.SH OPTIONS
.B gsymfix
accepts the following options:
.TP
\-\-help
Displays this help message.
.TP
\-\-verbose
Enables verbose output.
.TP
\-\-vverbose
Enables *very* verbose output.
.TP
\-\-version
Shows the version of this program.

.SH AUTHOR
Mike Skerritt <mike@acornpacket.com>.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR gschem (1),
.BR gsymcheck (1)

.SH COPYRIGHT
.nf
Copyright \(co 1999-2011 gEDA Contributors.  License GPLv2+: GNU GPL
version 2 or later.  Please see the `COPYING' file included with this
program for full details.
.PP
This is free software: you are free to change and redistribute it.
There is NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.
