.TH olib 1 "June 19th, 2011" "gEDA Project" 1.7.1.20110619

.SH NAME
.B olib
\- OrCAD(tm) library part to gEDA .sym converter

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B olib
.I filename prefix

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B olib
is a simple automated converter from OrCAD v4 (in SDT version 1.10)
ASCII parts library to gEDA component definition in .sym format
file. It allow an initial dumb conversion file to file, with one lib
converted in multiple .sym file, one per component in library.  The
converted component file may need a little editing to become usable,
but in some case needs no editing at all.
.B olib
will write one file per part in the current directory.
.PP
.B olib
will:
.IP \(bu
Convert box-shaped components in OrCAD lib to .sym file in gEDA format;
.IP \(bu
Place pin, pin name, pin type, pin number;
.IP \(bu
Place logic bubble when needed (DOT attribute in OrCAD (TM), for logic
negation);
.IP \(bu
Place clock arrow when needed (CLK attribute);
.IP \(bu
Place reference, from REFERENCE statement in OrCAD;
.IP \(bu
Place part name as label and device name as attribute;
.IP \(bu
Parse and draw non-box component, with LINE, ARC, CIRCLE and TEXT;
.IP \(bu
Add power pin as invisible net=name:pin attribute when detected (in OrCAD,
invisible pin has typically T0 and B0 coords);
.IP \(bu
Through a command line switch, hides pin name in VECTOR drawn symbols,
for a better appearance;
.IP \(bu
Write both new (post-20020825) and old (20020209) file format for .sym files
through a switch on the command line;
.PP
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
filename
The OrCAD library to convert. This should have been
previously converted to ASCII format using the OrCAD 'decomp' utility.
.TP
prefix
The prefix used to generate the filenames of the output gEDA symbols e.g.
prefix-partname-1.sym
.SH LIMITATIONS
.B olib
has the following limitations:
.IP \(bu
.B olib
will not parse and store alternate component drawing (statement CONVERT in
OrCAD);
.IP \(bu
.B olib
will not handle drawing part using VECTOR list from another part (statement
VECTOR 'partname' in OrCAD);
.IP \(bu
.B olib
will not handle FILL statement in VECTOR statement (no equivalent in gEDA);
.IP \(bu
.B olib
will not handle multiple part in one package (slots in gEDA).
.SH AUTHOR
Mario Pascucci <m.pas@libero.it>
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR gschem (1)
.SH COPYRIGHT
.nf
Copyright \(co 1999-2011 gEDA Contributors.  License GPLv2+: GNU GPL
version 2 or later.  Please see the `COPYING' file included with this
program for full details.
.PP
This is free software: you are free to change and redistribute it.
There is NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.
