.TH gschem 1 "January 10th, 2008" Version 1.3.1.20080110
.SH NAME
gschem - gEDA/gaf Schematic Capture
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B gschem
[-q] [-v] [-t] [-r rcfilename] [-s scriptfilename] [-o outputfilename] [-p] [-h] [schematic1 ... schematicN]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
\fIgschem\fP is the schematic capture program which is part gEDA 
(GPL Electronic Design Automation) toolset.  This program is used to draw
electronic schematics.  Schematics consist of standard symbols (which 
are either part of a standard library or created by the user) which 
represent the various gates and components.  These components are then 
interconnected by nets (wires).  Schematics may be printed to a
PostScript file for printing or further conversion to other output
formats.  Output to various image formats is also supported.

\fIgschem\fP is also the symbol creation editor.  All the standard 
methods of creating schematics are used in the creation of symbols. There
are a few special rules when creating symbols, so please refer to the
(non-existant as of now) symbol creation document.

Please read the official documentation (very minimal at this point)
on how to use \fIgschem\fP, since this man page just describes the command
line arguments and a few examples on how to run \fIgschem\fP.

.SH OPTIONS
.l
\fIgschem\fP accepts the following options:
.TP 8
.B -q
Quiet mode on.  This mode turns off all warnings/notes/messages. (optional)
.TP 8
.B -v 
Verbose mode on.  This mode gives as much feedback to the user as possible. (optional)
.TP 8
.B -t 
Print out more information when using mouse strokes.  With this command
line flag and the middle button configured for mouse strokes, gschem
will output the stroke sequence numbers as the user executes strokes.
These numbers can be used to define new strokes in the system-gschemrc file.
.TP 8
.B -r filename
Specify a rc filename.  Normally \fIgschem\fP searches for the system-gschemrc, then
~/.gEDA/gschemrc, and finally for a gschemrc in the current directory.  This
options allows the user to specify an additional rc file which is read after
all the other rc files are read. (optional)
.TP 8
.B -s filename
Specify a guile script to be executed at startup. (optional)
.TP 8
.B -o filename
Specify a filename for postscript output.  This command line argument is 
useful when running \fIgschem\fP from a shell script and with a guile script.  The 
filename can be changed through
the print dialog box.
.TP 8
.B -p 
Automatically place the window, especially useful if running gschem from the
command line and generating output.
.TP 8
.B -h 
Print out short command line help.
.TP 8
.B schematic1 [... schematicN]
Schematic file to be loaded.  Specifing a schematic file is optional.  If
multiple schematic files are specified they are read in sequentially and 
put on seperate pages.  It is important that the schematic(s) follow 
all the options (ie last).

.SH EXAMPLES 
These examples assume that you have a schematic called stack_1.sch in
the current directory

To run \fIgschem\fP and then interact with the program:

	gschem 
.br

To run \fIgschem\fP in interactive mode but load a sample schematic:

	gschem adders_1.sch

To run \fIgschem\fP and load up all schematics in the current subdirectory:

	gschem *.sch

.SH "ENVIRONMENT"
\fIgschem\fP respects the following environment variable:
.PP
.TP 8
.B GEDADATA 
specifies where the various required scheme and rc files are located
(the default is ${prefix}/share/gEDA).  This environment variables does
not need to be set by the end user unless they are moving the executables
to a new install ${prefix}.

.SH "AUTHOR"
Ales Hvezda and many others

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR gnetlist (1),
.BR gsymcheck (1)
.SH COPYRIGHT
.nf
Copyright \(co  1999-2008 Ales Hvezda

This document can be freely redistributed according to the terms of the 
GNU General Public License version 2.0

