\input texinfo                              @c -*-texinfo-*-
@setfilename lepton-scheme.info
@include version.texi
@documentencoding utf-8
@dircategory The Algorithmic Language Scheme
@direntry
* Lepton EDA Scheme: (lepton-scheme).  Lepton EDA extensibility with Guile Scheme.
@end direntry
@settitle Lepton EDA Scheme Reference Manual @value{VERSION}

@copying
This manual is for Lepton EDA, version @value{VERSION}.

Copyright @copyright{} 2011-2013 Peter TB Brett
Copyright @copyright{} 2011-2017 gEDA developers
Copyright @copyright{} 2017-2021 Lepton developers

The text of and illustrations in this document are licensed under a
Creative Commons Attribution–Share Alike 3.0 Unported license
("CC-BY-SA"). An explanation of CC-BY-SA is available at
@uref{http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/3.0/}. The original
authors of this document designate the gEDA Project and Lepton EDA
Project as the "Attribution Parties" for purposes of CC-BY-SA. In
accordance with CC-BY-SA, if you distribute this document or an
adaptation of it, you must provide the URL for the original version.
@end copying

@titlepage
@title Lepton EDA Scheme Reference Manual
@author Peter TB Brett

@page
@vskip 0pt plus 1filll
@insertcopying

@end titlepage

@contents

@ifnottex
@node Top
@top Lepton EDA Scheme Reference Manual
@insertcopying
@end ifnottex

@menu
* Introduction::

* Schematic Document Model::
* Core API Reference::
* lepton-schematic API Reference::
* lepton-netlist API Reference::

* Concept Index::
* Function Index::
* Variable Index::
@end menu

@node Introduction
@unnumbered Introduction

@section About Lepton EDA
Lepton EDA is a suite of free software tools for designing
electronics. It provides schematic capture, netlisting into over 30
netlist formats, and many other features. It was forked from the
@url{http://wiki.geda-project.org/geda:gaf, gEDA/gaf suite} (part of
gEDA, please see below) by most of its main developers in late 2016.

@section About gEDA

@dfn{gEDA}, or @emph{GPL Electronic Design Automation}, is a suite of
free software tools for designing electronics.  The gEDA project has
produced and continues working on a full GPL'd suite and toolkit of
Electronic Design Automation (EDA) tools. These tools are used for
electrical circuit design, schematic capture, simulation, prototyping,
and production.

The gEDA project was started because of the lack of free EDA tools for
POSIX systems with the primary purpose of advancing the state of free
hardware or open source hardware. The suite is mainly being developed
on the GNU/Linux platform with some development effort going into
making sure the tools run on other platforms as well.

@section About the Lepton EDA Scheme API

The @dfn{Lepton EDA Scheme API}, documented in this manual, is a set of
Scheme functions which can be used to enhance Lepton applications by
adding new functionality or modify existing behaviour.

Lepton EDA (formerly gEDA) has always used a Scheme interpreter for
interpreting configuration files, managing keybindings in
lepton-schemactic (formerly gschem), and implementing netlist exporter
backends in gnetlist.  However, for a long time the utility of
embedding a Scheme interpreter was diminished by the lack of a
low-level API for inspecting and modifying schematic documents.  The
Scheme types and functions documented here were added to gEDA and
later to Lepton to address that need.

Lepton uses the @emph{Guile} Scheme implementation (otherwise known as
the @emph{GNU Ubiquitous Intelligent Language for Extensions}) as its
embedded Scheme.  For more information about Guile, please visit
@uref{http://www.gnu.org/s/guile/}.

@section Getting Additional Help
@cindex Reporting bugs

If you think you have found a bug, please file a bug report:
@uref{https://github.com/lepton-eda/lepton-eda/issues}. Please add the tag
@samp{scheme-api}.  It will help us to fix your bug quickly if you can
describe in detail how to reproduce the bug.

If you have a question about using Lepton EDA, or about extending
Lepton using Scheme, you may wish to send a message to one of the gEDA
mailing lists (@samp{geda-user} or @samp{geda-help}) which can be
accessed from the main gEDA website:
@uref{http://www.geda-project.org/}.  Currently, Lepton doesn't have
an own mailing list. You may also find additional information in the
@url{https://github.com/lepton-eda/lepton-eda/wiki, Lepton EDA wiki}.

@section We Need Feedback!

If you find a typographical error in this manual, or if you have
thought of a way to make this manual better, we would love to hear
from you! Please submit a bug report:
@uref{https://github.com/lepton-eda/lepton-eda/issues}, with the tag @samp{scheme-api}.

@node Schematic Document Model
@chapter The Schematic Document Model

When using Lepton EDA to design an electronic circuit, users use the
schematic editor, lepton-schematic, to choose and place
@emph{schematic symbols} on a @emph{schematic page}, and connect the
@emph{pins} of the symbols together by drawing @emph{nets}.  The user
may add various @emph{attributes} to symbols, nets or pins to modify
how the circuit diagrams should be interpreted.  The resulting
schematics are then processed with the gnetlist tool to generate a
@emph{netlist}.

This chapter describes the different data types used by the Scheme API
to represent Lepton EDA documents (both schematics and symbols), and
how they relate to each other.

@menu
* Pages::
* Objects::
* Component objects::
* Attributes::
* Coordinate system::
@end menu

@node Pages
@section Pages
@cindex Pages
@cindex Schematics
@cindex Symbols

Schematics and symbols are presented as different types of document to
the user, with different file extensions, icons and mime-types.
However, when they are loaded into a Lepton application such as
lepton-schematic for editing, they are internally represented in
exactly the same way, by the @code{page} type.  The @code{page} is the
top-level Lepton document data type.

Internally, the main difference between a @code{page} for a schematic
and a @code{page} for a symbol is the types of schematic element they
are permitted to contain (@pxref{Objects}).  For example, a symbol is
not permitted to contain nets, buses, or instances of other symbols,
and a schematic is not permitted to contain pins.

@strong{Note}: Although the restrictions on what types of primitive
element schematics and symbols may contain are not enforced by the
API, designs which violate these restrictions may cause the netlister
not to work as expected.

Each @code{page} is associated with a filename, although the filename is
not required by the API either to be valid or to be associated with a
accessible file in the filesystem.

Pages are not garbage-collected; once you create a @code{page}, you are
responsible for making sure that it is disposed of when it is no
longer required.

@node Objects
@section Objects
@cindex Objects
@cindex Schematic elements

Each @code{page} contains some number of @dfn{schematic elements},
represented by the @code{object} type.  There are several sub-types of
@code{object}, including:

@itemize @bullet
@item
graphical lines, circles, arcs, rectangles and paths;

@item
nets and net pins;

@item
buses and bus pins;

@item
pictures;

@item
text;

@item
and symbol instances, known as 'components'.
@end itemize

Each @code{object} can be part of at most a single @code{page} -- they
cannot be shared between pages.  @code{object}s are automatically
garbage collected.

Most of different @code{object} sub-types are quite straightforward to
understand.  The main exceptions are components, and the text
@code{object}-based attribute mechanism, which are described in the
following sections.

@node Component objects
@section Component objects
@cindex Component
@cindex Component library
@cindex Embedded component

When a symbol is instantiated in a schematic (e.g. by the user
selecting it from the lepton-schematic component library and placing
it on the page), a compound @code{object} known as a @dfn{component}
is created.

Like a @code{page}, a component contains some number of @code{object}
elements.  When a component is created from a symbol, the contents of
the symbol's @code{page} are copied into the component.

In order to allow the component to appear in the correct place on the
schematic page, at the correct orientation, etc., a transformation is
applied to every @code{object} in the component.

Normally, when the schematic @code{page} is closed, the parameters of
the transformation are stored in the schematic file along with the
basename of the original symbol, but the @code{object} contents of the
component are discarded.  When the schematic is subsequently
re-opened, the original symbol is retrieved from the component
library, and used to recreate the component.

However, a component may optionally be @emph{embedded}.  In this case,
its contents @emph{are} stored in the schematic file.

@strong{Note}: A component cannot contain another component -- only
other types of @code{object}.

@node Attributes
@section Attributes
@cindex Attribute
@cindex Attribute format

A Lepton user is able to annotate schematic elements with additional
data, such as footprints for components or net names for nets.  This
is carried out using @dfn{attributes}.

An attribute is text @code{object} which contains a text string in the
form @samp{@var{name}=@var{value}}.  Currently, the restrictions on
attribute format that are enforced by the API are:

@itemize @bullet
@item
Attribute @var{name}s:

@enumerate
@item
must contain at least one character;
@item
must not contain a @samp{=} character (Unicode @code{U+003D});
@item
must not end with a space (@samp{ }, Unicode @code{U+0020}).
@end enumerate

@item
Attribute @var{value}s:

@enumerate
@item
must contain at least one character;
@item
must not begin with a space (@samp{ }, Unicode @code{U+0020}).
@end enumerate
@end itemize

@strong{Note}: Due to assumptions made by some Lepton and gEDA tools,
it is @emph{strongly recommended} that you use attribute @var{name}s
which contain only lower-case Latin characters, decimal digits, full
stops @samp{.}  (@code{U+002E}), and hyphens @samp{-} (@code{U+002D}).

There are two types of attribute:

@cindex Attached attribute
@emph{Attached attributes} are attribute text @code{object}s that are
linked to another @code{object}.  To attach an attribute to another
schematic element, both @code{object}s must be part of the same
component or part of the same @code{object}.  For example, a
@samp{netname=@var{name}} attribute attached to a net @code{object}
can be used to give that net a specific name in netlist output, such
as @samp{VCC} or @samp{GND}.

@cindex Floating attribute
@emph{Floating attributes} are attribute text @code{object}s that are
not linked to another @code{object}.  These attributes affect the
schematic or symbol that they're part of as a whole.  For example, a
floating @samp{documentation=@var{url}} attribute in a symbol tells
lepton-schematic's @strong{Help → Component Documentation} command how
to find the component's data sheet.

@node Coordinate system
@section Coordinate system

Lepton documents use a @dfn{coordinate system} (internally referred to
as `world' coordinates) with coordinates increasing upwards and to the
right (i.e. a conventional right-handed Cartesian coordinate
system).

Although all coordinates may be positive or negative, lepton-schematic
only displays objects with positive coordinates (i.e. in the upper
right quadrant of the coordinate system).  It is therefore recommended
to use only positive coordinates.

In the Scheme API, the coordinate of a point is expressed in the format:

@example
(x . y)
@end example

and a set of @dfn{bounds} (i.e. a rectangular area in the document
plane) is expressed in the format:

@example
((left . top) . (right . bottom))
@end example

where @code{left} is the smaller x coordinate, @code{right} is the
larger x coordinate, and @code{bottom} and @code{top} are respectively
the smaller and larger y coordinates.

@node Core API Reference
@chapter Core API Reference

The Scheme modules and functions described in this chapter are
primitive operations for working with schematics and symbols, and are
available to be used in all Lepton applications.

@menu
* Core page functions::
* Core object functions::
* Core attribute functions::
* Core source library functions::
* Configuration functions::
* Logging functions::
* System information::
* Version information::
@end menu

@node Core page functions
@section Core page functions

To use the functions described in this section, you will need to load
the @code{(lepton page)} module.

@xref{Pages}.

@defun page? obj
Returns @samp{#t} if and only if @var{obj} is a @code{page}.
@end defun

@defun active-pages
Returns a list of all open @code{page}s.
@end defun

@subsection Page creation, disposal and filenames

Every @code{page} is associated with a @emph{filename}.  The filename
does not necessarily have to be a file which exists and/or is
accessible in the filesystem.

@defun make-page filename
Creates and returns a new, empty @code{page}, with the given
string @var{filename}.
@end defun

@defun close-page! page
Destroys @var{page}.  The returned value is undefined.

@strong{Warning}: This function closes and destroys @var{page}
immediately, regardless of whether the page has been modified since
loading or saving, and without asking the user.
@end defun

@defun page-filename page
Returns the filename associated with @var{page} as a string.
@end defun

@defun set-page-filename! page filename
Sets the filename of @var{page} to @var{filename}.  Returns
@var{page}.
@end defun

@subsection Conversion between files and pages
Pages can be converted to and from files in the gEDA schematic file
format.

@defun file->page filename [new-page?]
Return a @code{page} for @var{filename} which must be a string. If
such a page has been already opened, that page is returned, otherwise
a new page is created.  If @var{new-page?} is not @samp{#f}, new page
creation is forced.  Returns the resulting @code{page}.
@end defun

@subsection Page serialisation

Pages can be converted to and from strings in the gEDA schematic file
format.

@defun string->page filename string
Parses @var{string}, which should be in the gEDA file format, to
create a new @code{page}.  The initial filename for the new
@code{page} is @var{filename}.

If the string is not in gEDA format, raises an @code{string-format} error.
@end defun

@defun page->string page
Returns a string representation of @var{page} in the gEDA file
format.
@end defun

@subsection Page contents

A schematic or symbol @code{page} is composed of a set of
@code{object}s which determine both its graphical appearance and its
electrical meaning.

@defun page-contents page
Returns a list of the @code{object}s which make up @var{page}.  The
list can be freely modified without changing the contents of
@var{page}.
@end defun

@defun page-append! page objects...
Appends zero or more @var{objects} to the contents of @var{page} in
the order given.  Returns @var{page}.

If any of the @var{objects} is already part of a @code{page} other
than @var{page}, or is part of a component @code{object}, raises an
@code{object-state} error.  Any of the @var{objects} that are already
in the @var{page} are ignored.
@end defun

@defun page-remove! page objects...
Removes zero or more @var{objects} from the contents of @var{page}.
Returns @var{page}.

Any @var{objects} that are not part of a @code{page} or component
@code{object} are ignored.

An @samp{object-state} error will be thrown if any of the
@var{objects} satisfies any of the following conditions:

@itemize
@item
part of a @code{page} other than @var{page};
@item
part of component @code{object};
@item
has attached attributes (@pxref{Attributes});
@item
is attached as an attribute.
@end itemize
@end defun

@defun object-page object
Returns the @code{page} which contains @var{object} (either directly
or indirectly), or @samp{#f} if @var{object} is not part of a
@code{page}.

@strong{Note}: If the @var{object} argument to @code{object-page} is
part of a component @code{object} which is itself part of a
@code{page}, that @code{page} will be returned.
@end defun

@subsection Page dirty flags

A @code{page} has a @emph{dirty flag} that is used to indicate to
applications that the @code{page} has been modified since it was last
loaded or saved.

@defun page-dirty? page
Returns @samp{#t} if the @var{page}'s page has been marked as dirty;
otherwise, returns @samp{#f}.
@end defun

@defun set-page-dirty! page [state]
Sets the dirty flag for @var{page}.  If @var{state} is @samp{#f},
clears the dirty flag; otherwise, or if @var{state} is omitted, marks
the page as dirty.  Returns @var{page}.
@end defun

@node Core object functions
@section Core object functions

To use the functions described in this section, you will need to load
the @code{(lepton object)} module.

@menu
* General object functions::
* Lines::
* Nets and buses::
* Pins::
* Boxes::
* Circles::
* Arcs::
* Paths::
* Pictures::
* Text::
* Components::
@end menu

@node General object functions
@subsection General object functions

@defun object? obj
Returns @samp{#t} if and only if @var{obj} is an @code{object}.
@end defun

@defun copy-object object
Returns a deep copy of @var{object}.  The new @code{object} returned
has no attached attributes, and is not part of a @code{page} or part
of a component @code{object}.
@end defun

@defun object-component object
Returns the component @code{object} that contains @var{object}, or
@samp{#f} if @var{object} is not part of a component.
@end defun

@defun object-connections object
Returns a list of other @code{object}s that are @emph{directly}
connected to @var{object}.  If @code{object} is not included in a
@code{page}, raises an @samp{object-state} error.  The connections
reported are independent of inclusion in components.

For example, consider a page containing a net and a component, and the
component contains a single pin.  If the connectable end of the pin
intersects the net, then @code{(object-connections <net>)} will return
a list containing the pin @code{object}, and @emph{not} the component.
@end defun

@defun object-selectable? object
Returns true (@samp{#t}) if @var{object} is selectable (i.e. not locked).
@end defun

@defun set-object-selectable! object state
Sets the selectable flag for @var{object}.
If @var{state} is @samp{#f}, clears the selectable flag; if @var{state}
is @samp{#t}, sets it. Returns @var{object}.
@end defun

@defun object-embedded? object
Returns true (@samp{#t}) if @var{object} is embedded,
false (@samp{#f}) otherwise.
@end defun

@defun set-object-embedded! object state
Embed (if @var{state} is @samp{#t}) or unembed (if @var{state} is
@samp{#t}) @var{object}. Returns @var{object}.
@end defun

@menu
* Object sub-types::
* Object transformations::
* Object bounds::
* Object color::
* Object fill and stroke::
@end menu

@node Object sub-types
@subsubsection Object sub-types

Schematic element @code{object}s come in several subtypes.

@defun object-type object
Returns the sub-type of @var{object} as a symbol.  The subtype will be
one of the following symbols:

@itemize
@item
@samp{arc}
@item
@samp{box}
@item
@samp{bus}
@item
@samp{circle}
@item
@samp{complex} (indicates a component @code{object})
@item
@samp{line}
@item
@samp{net}
@item
@samp{path}
@item
@samp{picture}
@item
@samp{pin}
@item
@samp{text}
@end itemize
@end defun

@strong{Note}: The word @samp{complex} is only used in Scheme API to
define component type for historical reasons, since before it was used
in the gEDA C source code.  As Guile Scheme supports complex numbers,
and the procedures related to working with complex numbers use the
word @samp{complex} to describe them, any other code of both Lepton C
and Scheme API uses the word @samp{component} instead to avoid
ambiguity.

@defun object-type? object type
Returns @samp{#t} if and only if @var{object} is an @code{object} and
that its subtype is @var{type}, which should be a symbol.
@end defun

@node Object transformations
@subsubsection Object transformations

Objects can be translated, rotated, or mirrored about a point.

@defun translate-objects! vector [objects...]
Translate @var{objects} by @var{vector}, a world coordinate distance
in the form @samp{(x . y)}.  Returns a list of the modified
@var{objects}.
@end defun

@defun rotate-objects! center angle [objects...]
Translate @var{objects} anti-clockwise by @var{angle} about
@var{center}, a world coordinate position in the form @samp{(x . y)}.
@var{angle} must be an integer multiple of 90 degrees.  Returns a list
of the modified @var{objects}.
@end defun

@defun mirror-objects! x-offset [objects...]
Mirror @var{objects} in the line @samp{x = @var{x-offset}}.  Returns a
list of the modified @var{objects}.
@end defun

@node Object bounds
@subsubsection Object bounds

The bounds of an object is the smallest bounding rectangle of the
object, expressed in document coordinates (@pxref{Coordinate system}).

@defun object-bounds objects...
Returns the world coordinate bounding box containing all of the
@var{objects} passed as arguments, or @samp{#f} if none of the
@var{objects} have bounds (for example, this can occur if no
@var{objects} are specified, or if they are all empty component
@code{object}s).

@strong{Note}: @code{object-bounds} always returns the actual bounds
of the @var{objects}, not the visible bounds.  This means that the bounds of
invisible text is always included.
@end defun

@defun fold-bounds bounds...
Calculates the union of several sets of @var{bounds} (as returned by
@code{object-bounds}).  If any of the @var{bounds} are @samp{#f}, they
are skipped; if all of the @var{bounds} are @samp{#f}, @samp{#f} is
returned.
@end defun

@node Object color
@subsubsection Object color

Object colors in Lepton documents are specified as indices into a color
map.  This allows users to specify the color map that suits them when
viewing schematics and symbols.

@defun object-color object
Returns the integer color map index of the color used to draw
@var{object}.
@end defun

@defun set-object-color! object color
Sets the integer color map index for @var{object} to @var{color}.
Returns @var{object}.
@end defun

@node Object fill and stroke
@subsubsection Object fill and stroke

Graphical object subtypes -- lines, boxes, circles, arcs and paths --
are drawn with a stroke pattern that can be configured in detail.

@defun object-stroke object
Returns the stroke settings of the @var{object}, which must be a line,
box, circle, arc or path @code{object}.  The return value is a list of
parameters:

@enumerate
@item
stroke width, as an integer number of world units
@item
cap style, one of the symbols @code{none}, @code{square} or
@code{round}.
@item
dash style, one of the symbols @code{solid}, @code{dotted},
@code{dashed}, @code{center} or @code{phantom}.
@item
up to two dash parameters, depending on the dash style:
@itemize
@item
for solid lines, no parameters;
@item
for dotted lines, dot spacing;
@item
for other styles, dot/dash spacing and dash length.
@end itemize
@end enumerate
@end defun

@defun set-object-stroke! object width cap dash [dash-space [dash-length]]
Set the stroke settings of the @var{object}, which must be a line,
box, circle, arc or path @code{object}.  The arguments are the same as
the contents of the list returned by @code{object-stroke}.  Returns
@var{object}.
@end defun

@defun object-stroke-width object
Returns the integer stroke width of @var{object}, which must be a
line, box, circle, arc or path @code{object}.
@end defun

@defun object-stroke-cap object
Returns the stroke cap style of @var{object}, which must be a line,
box, circle, arc or path @code{object}.  The returned value is one of
the symbols @code{none}, @code{square} or @code{round}.
@end defun

@defun object-stroke-dash object
Returns the dash style of @var{object}, which must be a line, box,
circle, arc or path @code{object}.  The return value is a list of
between one and three parameters:

@enumerate
@item
dash style, one of the symbols @code{solid}, @code{dotted},
@code{dashed}, @code{center} or @code{phantom}.
@item
for styles other than @code{solid}, dot/dash spacing;
@item
for @code{dashed}, @code{center} and @code{phantom}, dash length.
@end enumerate
@end defun

Some types of @code{object} -- boxes, circles and paths -- can have
their interiors filled with a variety of patterns.

@defun object-fill object
Returns the fill settings of @var{object}, which must be a box, circle
or path @code{object}.  The return value is a list of one to six
parameters:

@enumerate
@item
fill style, one of the symbols @code{hollow}, @code{solid},
@code{mesh} or @code{hatch};
@item
up to five fill parameters, depending on fill style:
@enumerate
@item
none for @code{hollow} or @code{solid} fills;
@item
line width, line spacing and line angle (in degrees) for @code{hatch} fills;
@item
line width, first spacing and angle, and second spacing and angle for
@code{mesh} fills.
@end enumerate
@end enumerate
@end defun

@defun set-object-fill! object fill-type . fill-args
Sets the fill settings of @var{object}, which must be a box, circle or
path @code{object}.  The arguments are the same as the contents of the
list returned by @code{object-fill}.  Returns @var{object}.
@end defun

@node Lines
@subsection Lines
Line @code{object}s are straight graphical line segments with no
electrical meaning.  A line's geometrical parameters are a start point
and end point, and it supports different colors and stroke styles.

Many of the functions for manipulating lines are also used to
manipulate line-like objects such as nets, buses or pins.

@defun line? object
Returns @samp{#t} if and only if @var{object} is a line @code{object}.
@end defun

@defun make-line start end [color]
Creates and returns a new line @code{object}.  @var{start} is the
position of the start of the new line in the form @code{(x . y)} and
@var{end} is the position of end of the line.  If @var{color} is
specified, it should be the integer color map index of the color with
which to draw the line.  If @var{color} is not specified, the default
line color is used.
@end defun

@defun set-line! line start end [color]
Sets the parameters of @var{line} (which may be a line, net, bus or
pin @code{object}).  The arguments are the same as to
@code{make-line}.  Returns @var{line}.
@end defun

@defun line-info line
Returns the parameters of @var{line} (which may be a line, net, bus or
pin @code{object}).  The return value is a list in the form:

@example
((start-x . start-y) (end-x . end-y) color)
@end example

@strong{Note}: For pin @code{object}s, first coordinate is the
connectable point on the pin.
@end defun

@defun line-start line
Returns the position @samp{(x . y)} of the start of @var{line} (which
may be a line, net, bus or pin @code{object}).  For pin
@code{objects}, this is the position of the connectable point on the
pin.
@end defun

@defun line-end line
Returns the position @samp{(x . y)} of the end of @var{line} (which
may be a line, net, bus or pin @code{object}).
@end defun

@node Nets and buses
@subsection Nets and buses

Net and bus @code{object}s are straight line segments which represent
electrical connectivity.  Nets represent single wires, and buses
multi-wire connections of arbitrary composition.

All of the functions that work on line @code{object}s also work with
nets and buses (@pxref{Lines}).  Note that @code{line?} will return
@code{#f} if called with a net or bus argument.

@defun net? object
Returns @samp{#t} if and only if @var{object} is a net.
@end defun

@defun make-net start end [color]
Creates and returns a new net @code{object}.  @var{start} is the
position of the start of the new net in the form @code{(x . y)} and
@var{end} is the position of end of the net.  If @var{color} is
specified, it should be the integer color map index of the color with
which to draw the net.  If @var{color} is not specified, the default
net color is used.
@end defun

@defun bus? object
Returns @samp{#t} if and only if @var{object} is a bus.
@end defun

@defun make-bus start end [color]
Creates and returns a new bus @code{object}.  Arguments are as for
@code{make-net}.
@end defun

@node Pins
@subsection Pins

Pin @code{objects} are straight line segments which represent
connectable points in symbols or subcircuits, such as the pins of a
semiconductor package.  Only one end of a pin can be connected to
nets, buses or other pins; the rest of a pin is purely graphical.

Pins come in two varieties: @dfn{net pins} and @dfn{bus pins}, which
are used for connections to nets and buses respectively (@pxref{Nets
and buses}).

All of the functions that work on line @code{object}s also work with
pins (@pxref{Lines}).  Note that @code{line?} will return @code{#f} if
called with a pin argument.

@defun pin? object
Returns @samp{#t} if and only if @var{object} is a pin @code{object}.
@end defun

@defun net-pin? object
Returns @samp{#t} if and only if @var{object} is a net pin.
@end defun

@defun make-net-pin start end [color]
Creates and returns a new net pin @code{object}.  @var{start} is the
position of the start of the new pin (the connectable end) in the form
@code{(x . y)} and @var{end} is the position of end of the pin.  If
@var{color} is specified, it should be the integer color map index of
the color with which to draw the pin.  If @var{color} is not
specified, the default pin color is used.
@end defun

@defun bus-pin? object
Returns @samp{#t} if and only if @var{object} is a bus pin.
@end defun

@defun make-bus-pin start end [color]
Creates and returns a new bus pin @code{object}.  Arguments are as for
@code{make-net-pin}.
@end defun

@node Boxes
@subsection Boxes

Boxes are rectangles specified by the coordinates of their top left
and bottom right corners.  They are purely graphical, and have no
electrical meaning.  They can be drawn in different colors, and with
various stroke and fill settings.

@xref{Object color}.
@xref{Object fill and stroke}.

@defun box? object
Returns @samp{#t} if and only if @var{object} is a box @code{object}.
@end defun

@defun make-box top-left bottom-right [color]
Creates and returns a new box @code{object}.  @var{top-left} is the
position of the top left of the new box in the form @code{(x . y)},
and @var{bottom-right} is the position of the bottom right of the box.
If @var{color} is specified, it should be the integer color map index
of the color with which to draw the box.  If @var{color} is not
specified, the default box color is used.
@end defun

@defun set-box! box top-left bottom-right [color]
Sets the parameters of @var{box}. The arguments are the same as to
@code{make-box}.  Returns @var{box}.
@end defun

@defun box-info box
Returns the parameters of @var{box}.  The return value is a list in the form:

@example
((top-left-x . top-left-y) (bottom-right-x . bottom-right-y) color)
@end example
@end defun

@defun box-top-left box
Returns the position of the top left corner of @var{box} in the form
@code{(x . y)}.
@end defun

@defun box-bottom-right box
Returns the position of the bottom right corner of @var{box} in the
form @code{(x . y)}.
@end defun

@node Circles
@subsection Circles

Circle @code{objects} are specified by center position and radius, and
are purely graphical with no electrical meaning.  They can be drawn in
different colors, and with various stroke and fill settings.

@xref{Object color}.
@xref{Object fill and stroke}.

@defun circle? object
Returns @samp{#t} if and only if @var{object} is a circle @code{object}.
@end defun

@defun make-circle center radius [color]
Creates and returns a new circle @code{object}.  @var{center} is the
position of the center of the new circle in the form @code{(x . y)},
and @var{radius} is the integer radius of the circle.  If @var{color}
is specified, it should be the integer color map index of the color
with which to draw the circle.  If @var{color} is not specified, the
default circle color is used.
@end defun

@defun set-circle! circle center radius [color]
Sets the parameters of @var{circle}. The arguments are the same as to
@code{make-circle}.  Returns @var{circle}.
@end defun

@defun circle-info circle
Returns the parameters of @var{circle} as a list of the form:

@example
((center-x . center-y) radius color)
@end example
@end defun

@defun circle-center circle
Returns the position of the center of @var{circle} as in the form
@code{(x . y)}.
@end defun

@defun circle-radius circle
Returns the radius of @var{circle} as an integer.
@end defun

@node Arcs
@subsection Arcs
Arc @code{objects} are specified by center position, radius, and start
and end angles.  They are purely graphical with no electrical
meaning. They can be drawn in different colors, and with various
stroke settings.

@defun arc? object
Returns @samp{#t} if and only if @var{object} is an arc @code{object}.
@end defun

@defun make-arc center radius start-angle sweep-angle [color]
Creates and returns a new arc @code{object}.  @var{center} is the
position of the center of the new arc in the form @code{(x . y)}, and
@var{radius} is the integer radius of the arc.  @var{start-angle} and
@var{sweep-angle} are the angles at which to start and end the arc, in
degrees. If @var{color} is specified, it should be the integer color
map index of the color with which to draw the arc.  If @var{color}
is not specified, the default arc color is used.
@end defun

@defun set-arc! arc center radius start-angle sweep-angle [color]
Sets the parameters of @var{arc}. The arguments are the same as to
@code{make-arc}. Returns @var{arc}.
@end defun

@defun arc-info arc
Returns the parameters of @var{arc} as a list of the form:

@example
((center-x . center-y) radius start-angle sweep-angle color)
@end example
@end defun

@defun arc-center arc
Returns the position of the center of @var{arc} in the form
@code{(x . y)}.
@end defun

@defun arc-radius arc
Returns the radius of @var{arc} as an integer.
@end defun

@defun arc-start-angle arc
Returns the start angle of @var{arc} as an integer number of degrees.
@end defun

@defun arc-sweep-angle arc
Returns the end angle of @var{arc} as an integer number of degrees.
@end defun

@node Paths
@subsection Paths

Paths are arbitrary shapes comprised of straight lines and Bézier
curves.  Each path contains a sequence of @emph{path elements}, each
of which requires zero or more absolute position parameters.  The
element types supported by Lepton are:

@itemize
@item
@samp{moveto} elements represent a step (without drawing) to another
point in the schematic, and begin a new subpath.  @samp{moveto}
elements need a single position parameter, which is the position of
the endpoint of the move.
@item
@samp{lineto} elements draw a straight line from the current point to
the point specified by a single position parameter.
@item
@samp{curveto} elements draw a Bézier curve from the current point.
The curve requires three position parameters: the position of the
first control point; the position of the second control point; and the
endpoint of the curve.
@item
@samp{closepath} elements close the current subpath by drawing a
straight line from the current point to the subpath's initial point.
They take no parameters.
@end itemize

@defun path? object
Returns @samp{#t} if and only if @var{object} is a path @code{object}.
@end defun

@defun make-path [color]
Creates and returns a new path @code{object}.  If @var{color} is
specified, it should be the integer color map index of the color with
which to draw the path.  If @var{color} is not specified, the default
path color is used.
@end defun

@defun path-length path
Returns the number of path elements in @var{path}.
@end defun

@defun path-ref path K
Returns the @var{K}th element in @var{path}.  The return value is a
list.  The first item in the list is a symbol indicating the type of
element, and any additional items are the position parameters of the
element.  For example, a call to @code{path-ref} might return:

@example
(curveto (800 . 525) (700 . 700) (500 . 700))
@end example

If @var{K} is not a valid offset into @var{path}, raises an
@samp{out-of-range} error.
@end defun

@defun path-remove! path K
Removes the @var{K}th element in @var{path}, returning @var{path}.  If
@var{K} is not a valid offset, raises an @samp{out-of-range} error.
@end defun

@defun path-insert! path K type [positions...]
Inserts a new element into @var{path} at index @var{K}.  @var{type} is
a symbol indicating the type of element to insert, using the
parameters @var{positions}.  If @var{K} is less than zero or greater
than the number of elements @var{path} already contains, the new
element is appended to the path.  For example, to append a straight
line section to the current path:

@example
(path-insert! path -1 'lineto '(500 . 100))
@end example
@end defun

@node Pictures
@subsection Pictures

A picture object displays an image in the schematic, and is a purely
graphical element.  Pictures may be in any format supported by the
user's GdkPixbuf installation (but note that images that can't be
loaded for some reason are preserved).  The @var{top-left},
@var{bottom-right}, @var{angle} and @var{mirror} properties of a
picture object indicate the transformation that was applied to the
original image.  The transformation is applied as follows:

@enumerate
@item
If @var{mirror} is true, the picture is reflected about its vertical
centerline.
@item
The picture is rotated by @var{angle} anticlockwise about its center
(@var{angle} may only be an integer multiple of 90 degrees).
@item
The picture is scaled and translated to fit within the rectangle
defined by the points @var{top-left} and @var{bottom-right}.
@end enumerate

@defun picture? object
Returns @samp{#t} if and only if @var{object} is a picture @code{object}.
@end defun

@defun make-picture/vector vector filename top-left bottom-right angle mirror
Creates and returns a new picture object for @var{filename}, by
reading image data from @var{vector} (which should be in a standard
image file format).  If @var{vector} could not be loaded, an error is
raised.  @var{top-left}, @var{bottom-right}, @var{angle} and
@var{mirror} specify the picture transformation.

The points @var{top-left} and @var{bottom-right} should be specified
in the form @samp{(x . y)}.
@end defun

@defun set-picture! picture top-left bottom-right angle mirror
Sets the picture transformation for @var{picture}.
@end defun

@defun picture-info picture
Returns the parameters of @var{picture} as a list in the form:

@example
(filename (top-left-x . top-left-y) (bottom-right-x . bottom-right-y) angle mirror)
@end example
@end defun

@defun picture-filename picture
Returns the filename associated with @var{picture} as a string.
@end defun

@defun picture-top-left picture
Returns the position of the top left corner of @samp{picture} in the
form @samp{(x . y)}.
@end defun

@defun picture-bottom-right picture
Returns the position of the bottom right corner of @samp{picture} in
the form @samp{(x . y)}.
@end defun

@defun picture-angle picture
Returns the angle to rotate @samp{picture} by, as an integer number of
degrees.
@end defun

@defun picture-mirror? picture
Returns true if @samp{picture} is mirrored.
@end defun

@node Text
@subsection Text

Text fulfils two roles, as straightforward labels and notes on
schematics and symbols, and as attached or floating attributes
(@pxref{Attributes}).  A text @code{object} can be aligned in
different ways relative to its anchor position, and can be displayed
in different font sizes.

Any text can be set to be visible or invisible on printed output (and
lepton-schematic provides ways to preview invisible text).  When a text
@code{object} is an attribute (i.e. its string is in a
@samp{@var{name}=@var{value}} format) then the visibility settings are
more fine-grained: the text can be set to display just the attribute
name, just the attribute value, or both.

@xref{Attributes}.

@defun text? object
Returns @samp{#t} if and only if @var{object} is a text @code{object}.
@end defun

@defun make-text anchor align angle string size visible show [color]
Creates and returns a new text @code{object}.  @var{anchor} is the
position of the anchor of the new text in the form @code{(x . y)}, and
@var{align} is a symbol determining how the text should be aligned
relative to the anchor.  @var{align} must be one of the following
symbols:

@itemize
@item
@samp{lower-left}
@item
@samp{middle-left}
@item
@samp{upper-left}
@item
@samp{lower-center}
@item
@samp{middle-center}
@item
@samp{upper-center}
@item
@samp{lower-right}
@item
@samp{middle-right}
@item
@samp{upper-right}
@end itemize

For example, if @var{align} is @samp{upper-center}, the anchor will be
located at the top center of the rendered text block.

@var{angle} should be an integer multiple of 90 degrees, determining
the angle which the text should be displayed at.  @var{string} is the
string contents for the @code{text} object, and must not contain any
null characters (@samp{#\0} in Scheme, Unicode
@samp{U+0000}). @var{size} is the font size to use.  If @var{visible}
is @samp{#f}, the text will be invisible; otherwise, it will be
visible.

When the @var{string} is in an attribute format (@pxref{Attributes}),
the @var{show} argument determines which parts of the @var{string}
will be displayed.  It must be one of the following symbols:

@itemize
@item
@samp{name}
@item
@samp{value}
@item
@samp{both}
@end itemize

If @var{color} is specified, it should be the integer color map index
of the color with which to draw the text.  If @var{color} is not
specified, the default text color is used.
@end defun

@defun set-text! text anchor align angle string size visible show [color]
Sets the parameters of @var{text}. The arguments are the same as to
@code{make-text}. Returns @var{text}.
@end defun

@defun text-info text
Returns the parameters of @var{text} as a list in the form:

@example
((anchor-x . anchor-y) align angle string size visible show color)
@end example

See @code{make-text} for a description of all of these parameters.
@end defun

@defun text-anchor text
Returns the position of the anchor of @var{text} in the form
@code{(x . y)}.
@end defun

@defun text-align text
Returns the alignment of @var{text} as one of the following symbols:

@itemize
@item
@samp{lower-left}
@item
@samp{middle-left}
@item
@samp{upper-left}
@item
@samp{lower-center}
@item
@samp{middle-center}
@item
@samp{upper-center}
@item
@samp{lower-right}
@item
@samp{middle-right}
@item
@samp{upper-right}
@end itemize
@end defun

@defun text-angle text
Returns the angle that @var{text} is displayed at as an integer
multiple of 90 degrees.
@end defun

@defun text-string text
Returns the string content of @var{text}.
@end defun

@defun set-text-string! text str
Set the string content of @var{text} to @var{str}.  @var{str} must not
contain any null characters (@samp{#\0} in Scheme, Unicode
@samp{U+0000}).
@end defun

@defun text-size text
Return the font size of @var{text} as an integer.
@end defun

@defun text-visible? text
Returns @samp{#t} if and only if @var{text} is set to be visible.
@end defun

@defun set-text-visibility! text visible?
If @var{visible?} is @samp{#f}, sets @var{text} to be invisible;
otherwise, sets it to be visible.
@end defun

@defun text-attribute-mode text
Returns a symbol indicating which parts of @var{text} will be
displayed when @var{text} is a valid attribute.  The returned value
will be one of the following symbols:

@itemize
@item
@samp{name}
@item
@samp{value}
@item
@samp{both}
@end itemize
@end defun

@node Components
@subsection Components

Component @code{object}s represent instances of symbols.  They contain
other @code{object}s copied from the original symbol when it is
instantiated into a schematic.

A component's @var{basename} is a string used to identify which symbol
it originated from.  When instantiating a symbol on initial placement
in a schematic, or when recreating a component while loading a
schematic, the @var{basename} is used to find the underlying symbol
file in the component library.

@xref{Component objects}.

The @var{position}, @var{angle} and @var{mirror} flag of a component
indicates the transformation that was applied to the contents of the
original symbol.  The transformation is applied in the following order:

@enumerate
@item
If @var{mirror} is true, the symbol is reflected in the line x = 0.
@item
The symbol is rotated anti-clockwise by @var{angle} degrees about the
point (0,0) (@var{angle} may only be an integer multiple of 90
degrees).
@item
Finally, the symbol is translated by @var{position}.
@end enumerate

The component's contents (as returned by @code{component-contents})
have the transformation already applied to them.  Updating the
translation information using e.g. @code{set-component!} will not
alter them -- that must be done separately (e.g. by reloading the
symbol).

@defun component? object
Returns @samp{#t} if and only if @var{object} is a component @code{object}.
@end defun

@defun make-component basename position angle mirror locked
Creates and returns a new, empty component @code{object} with the
given @var{basename}.  @var{position}, @var{angle} and @var{mirror}
specify the symbol transformation.  If @var{locked} is true, the
component will be protected against accidental selection by the user
(this is used in lepton-schematic e.g. for titleblocks).

No attempt is made to load a symbol matching @var{basename} from
component libraries, and the returned component is flagged as
embedded.
@end defun

@defun make-component/library basename position angle mirror locked
Searches the component libraries for a symbol matching @var{basename},
and if found, instantiates the symbol and returns the resulting
component (which is not flagged as embedded).  Arguments are as for
@code{make-component}.

If no match for @var{basename} is found, @samp{#f} is returned.
@end defun

@defun set-component! component position angle mirror locked
Sets the parameters of @var{component}.  Arguments are the same as to
@code{make-component}.  Returns @var{component}.

@strong{Note}: Remember that modifying the transformation parameters
of a component does not update the component's contents.
@end defun

@defun set-component-with-transform! component position angle mirror locked
Sets the parameters of @var{component}.  Arguments are the same as to
@code{make-component}.  Returns @var{component}.

@strong{Note}: All transformations are applied immediately.
@end defun

@defun component-info component
Returns the parameters of @var{component} as a list of the form:

@example
(basename (x . y) angle mirror locked)
@end example
@end defun

@defun component-basename component
Returns the basename of @var{component}.
@end defun

@defun component-filename component
If a component object @var{component} has a symbol file
associated with it, returns its full path, otherwise
returns false (@samp{#f}).
@end defun

@defun component-position component
Returns the position to which the original symbol was translated when
creating @var{component}.
@end defun

@defun component-angle component
Returns the angle by which the original symbol was rotated when
creating @var{component}, as an integer number of degrees.
@end defun

@defun component-mirror? component
Returns true if the original symbol was mirrored when creating
@var{component}.
@end defun

@defun component-locked? component
Returns true if @var{component} is non-selectable.
@end defun

@defun component-contents component
Returns the contents of @var{components} as a list of objects.
@end defun

@defun component-append! component objects...
Appends @var{objects} (which must not be component @code{object}s) to
the contents of @var{component}.  Any @var{objects} which are already
included in @var{component} are ignored.  If any @var{objects} are
already part of a @code{page} or of another component @code{object},
an @samp{object-state} error is raised. Returns @var{component}.
@end defun

@defun component-remove! component objects...
Removes @var{objects} from the contents of @var{component}.  Any
@var{objects} which are not part of a component or of a page are
ignored. Returns @var{component}.

An @samp{object-state} error will be raised if any @var{objects}
satisfy any of the following conditions:

@itemize
@item
are part of a @code{page};
@item
are part of a component @code{object} other than @var{component};
@item
have attached attributes
@item
are attached as an attribute.
@end itemize
@end defun

@node Core attribute functions
@section Core attribute functions

To use the functions described in this section, you will need to load
the @code{(lepton attrib)} module.

Attributes are text @code{object}s with a particular format of string.
They can be floating, or they can be attached to another
@code{object}.

@defun attribute? object
Returns true if and only if @var{object} is an attribute (i.e. a text
@code{object} and in attribute format).
@end defun

@subsection Attribute names and values

@defun parse-attrib text
Splits the string from @var{text} (a text @code{object}) into name and
value, if it is in attribute format.  If it is not in attribute
format, raises an @samp{attribute-format} error.  The return value is
in the form @samp{(@var{name} . @var{value})}.
@end defun

@defun attrib-name attrib
Returns the name part of @var{attrib}, as a string.
@end defun

@defun attrib-value attrib
Returns the value part of @var{attrib}, as a string.
@end defun

@defun set-attrib-value! attrib value
Sets the value part of @var{attrib} to @var{value}.
@end defun

@subsection Attribute attachment

@defun attrib-attachment attrib
If @var{attrib} is attached to another @code{object}, returns that
object.  Otherwise, returns @samp{#f}.
@end defun

@defun object-attribs object
Returns a list of all attributes attached to @var{object}.
@end defun

@defun attach-attribs! object [attribs...]
Attach @var{attribs} to @var{object}.  All the @var{attribs} must be
text @code{object}s.  The following conditions must be satisfied, or
an @samp{object-state} error will be raised:

@itemize
@item
Neither @var{object} nor any of the @var{attribs} may be already
attached as an attribute;
@item
Both @var{object} and all @var{attribs} must be part of the same
@code{page} and/or component @code{object};
@end itemize

Any @var{attribs} that are already attached to @var{object} are
ignored.  Returns @var{object}.

@strong{Note}: For historical reasons, @code{attach-attribs!} does not
require that all @var{attribs} satisfy @code{attribute?}.
Nevertheless, avoid attaching non-attribute text objects as attributes.
@end defun

@defun detach-attribs! object [attribs...]
Detach @var{attribs} from @var{object}.  Any @var{attribs} that are
not attached as attributes are ignored.  If any @var{attribs} are
attached to @code{object}s other than @var{object}, an
@samp{object-state} error is raised.
@end defun

@subsection Inherited and promoted attributes

@dfn{Inherited attributes} are unattached attributes inside a
component @code{object}.

@defun inherited-attribs object
Returns the inherited attributes of @var{object}, if @var{object} is a
component.  If @var{object} is not a component, returns the empty
list.
@end defun

@defun attrib-inherited? attrib
Returns @samp{#t} if @var{attrib} is an inherited attribute.
@end defun

@dfn{promotable attributes} are inherited attributes that are both
visible and have names that are in the list of promotable attributes
set with the @code{always-promote-attributes} rc file parameter.

@defun promotable-attribs component
Returns a list of promotable attributes of @var{component}.
@end defun

@defun promote-attribs! component
Promote all promotable attributes from @var{component} into the
@code{page} that contains @var{component}.  If @var{component} is not
in a page, an @samp{object-state} error is raised.

All promotable attributes are copied, and made invisible.  The copies
are added to the @code{page}, and attached as attributes of @var{component}.

The promoted attributes are returned.  If @var{component} is not in
fact a component @code{object}, does nothing and returns the empty list.
@end defun

@node Core source library functions
@section Core source library functions

To use the functions described in this section, you will need to load
the @code{(lepton library)} module.

@defvar %default-source-library
Default source library used in the tools.
@end defvar

@defun source-library-contents library
Returns the contents of source @var{library}.
@end defun

@defun set-source-library-contents! library contents
Sets the contents of given source @var{library} into
@var{contents}. The value of @var{contents} must be a list of paths
where source files are stored or @code{'()}.
@end defun

@node Configuration functions
@section Configuration functions
@cindex Configuration

To use the functions described in this section, you will need to load
the @code{(lepton config)} module.

This section describes some functions for accessing, monitoring and
modifying the configuration of Lepton libraries and applications.

@menu
* Configuration contexts::
* Configuration parameters::
* Configuration events::
* Configuration errors::
@end menu

@node Configuration contexts
@subsection Configuration contexts
@cindex Configuration context

A configuration parameter is always evaluated within a
@dfn{configuration context}.  Each context is associated with a
configuration file (although the file does not necessarily need to
exist).

Each configuration context may have a @dfn{parent context}.  If, when
looking up a parameter, it has no value set in the selected context,
the parent context is checked, and so on.

Several special contexts are always automatically defined: the
@dfn{default context}, the @dfn{system context}, the @dfn{user
context} and the @dfn{cache context}.  The user context is the
default parent context for all other configuration contexts,
including newly-created ones.

@subsubsection Obtaining a context
@cindex System configuration context
@cindex User configuration context
@cindex Default configuration contex

@defun path-config-context path
Normally, you shouldn't create a configuration context directly; you
should obtain the configuration context associated with a @var{path}.

@code{path-config-context} looks for a configuration file named
@file{lepton.conf}.  If @var{path} is not a directory, it is truncated,
and then a file named @file{lepton.conf} is looked for in that
directory.  If none is found, the parent directory is checked, and so
on until a configuration file is found or the filesystem root is
reached.  If no configuration file was found, the returned context
will be associated with a @file{lepton.conf} in the same directory as
@var{path}.

@strong{Warning}: Do not assume that the configuration file associated
with the context returned by @code{path-config-context} is located in
the directory specified by @var{path}.
@end defun

@defun default-config-context
The default context is not associated with any physical path or
on-disk configuration file, and has no parent context.  It contains
the default configuration used when no configuration file can be
loaded.

@strong{Note}: Normally, the default context should be populated with
built-in default configuration settings on start-up, before loading
any further configuration files.  This approach is strongly
recommended, because it means that configuration parameters can then
be safely read without having to use @code{config-has-group?} and
@code{config-has-key?} to check if they are set (@pxref{Configuration
parameters, , Configuration groups and keys}).

Since 1.10.
@end defun

@defun system-config-context
The system context is used for system-wide configuration.  Its parent
context is the default context.  It is located by searching
@code{sys-config-dirs} for a
@file{$@{prefix@}/share/lepton-eda/lepton-system.conf} file.

Since 1.10.
@end defun

@defun user-config-context
The user context is used for user-specific configuration, and is
loaded from @file{lepton-user.conf} in @code{user-config-dir}.
Its parent context is the system context.

Since 1.10.
@end defun

@defun cache-config-context
The cache context is used to store program-specific settings,
like dialog geometry and command history.
It has no parent configuration context.
The associated file is @file{gui.conf}
in @file{$XDG_CACHE_HOME/lepton-eda/} directory (usually,
@file{~/.cache/lepton-eda/}).
That path can be determined by calling @code{user-cache-dir}
function from the @code{(lepton os)} module.
@end defun

@defun anyfile-config-context path [parent] [trusted]
Returns the context associated with a configuration file
given by @var{path}.
It can be assigned a parent context @var{parent} (by default it
has no parent context).
The context is considered untrusted, unless the @var{trusted}
parameter is set to @samp{#t}.
@end defun

@defun config? cfg
Returns @samp{#t} if and only if @var{cfg} is a configuration
context object.
@end defun

@subsubsection Loading and saving configuration files
@cindex Loading configuration
@cindex Saving configuration
Other than the default context, all configuration contexts are
associated with an on-disk configuration file.

@defun config-filename cfg
Return the filename of the configuration file associated with the
context @var{cfg}.  For some contexts (including the default context),
this will return @samp{#f}.

Since 1.10.
@end defun

@defun config-load! cfg [force-load]
Attempt to load configuration parameters for the context @var{cfg}
from its associated file. If @var{force-load} keyword argument is true
(@samp{#t}), configuration will be reloaded even if it has already been
loaded. By default, @var{force-load} is set to false (@samp{#f}).
@end defun

@defun config-loaded? cfg
Determine whether the context @var{cfg} has been successfully loaded
from file.

Since 1.10.
@end defun

@defun config-save! cfg
Attempt to save configuration parameters for the context @var{cfg} to
its associated file. Returns @var{cfg}. If configuration cannot be
saved, raises an error.

Since 1.10.
@end defun

@defun config-changed? cfg
Determine whether the context @var{cfg} has been altered since it was
last synchronised with the on-disk version by loading or saving it.

Since 1.10.
@end defun

@subsubsection Context parents
@cindex Context parent
@cindex Parent configuration context
A configuration context may have a @dfn{parent context}, from which it
inherits configuration values.  Configuration inheritance loops are
not permitted.

@xref{Configuration parameters, , Configuration inheritance}.

@defun config-parent cfg
Return the parent context of the context @var{cfg}, if it has one.
Otherwise, return @samp{#f}.

Since 1.10.
@end defun

@defun set-config-parent! cfg parent
Sets @var{parent} as the parent context of @var{cfg}.  If @var{parent}
is @samp{#f}, sets @var{cfg} as having no parent context.

@strong{Note}: Normally, application code should avoid using this
function; keeping to the default configuration inheritance structure
is recommended in order to ensure consistent behaviour of all liblepton
applications.

Since 1.10.
@end defun

@subsubsection Context trust
@cindex Context trust
@cindex Trusted configuration context
@cindex Configuration trust

Some configuration parameters are dangerous; in particular, parameters
that may lead to arbitrary code execution need to be handled
carefully.  Such settings might include:

@itemize
@item
Preferred PDF reader
@item
Preferred web browser
@item
Search path for Scheme plugins
@end itemize

Configuration contexts can be flagged as being @dfn{trusted}.  This
allows code that needs to access such dangerous parameters to
determine whether the value has been obtained from a safe source.

By default, the default context, system context and user context are
trusted, and all other contexts untrusted.

@defun config-trusted? cfg
Test whether @var{cfg} is a trusted configuration context.

Since 1.10.
@end defun

@defun set-config-trusted! cfg trusted?
Set whether the configuration context @var{cfg} should be trusted as a
source for dangerous configuration parameters.

@strong{Warning}: You should not set a configuration context as
trusted unless you are certain that it originated from a safe source
(e.g. by interacting with the user to verify it).

Since 1.10.
@end defun

@defun config-trusted-context cfg
If @var{cfg} is trusted, returns @var{cfg}; otherwise, returns the
first parent context of @var{cfg} that is a trusted context.  If no
trusted context can be found, returns @samp{#f}.

Since 1.10.
@end defun

@node Configuration parameters
@subsection Configuration parameters
@cindex Configuration parameter
@cindex Configuration key
@cindex Configuration group
@cindex Configuration value

A Lepton @dfn{configuration parameter} consists of three components:

@table @dfn
@item Group
A string which identifies the general category in which the
parameter lies (e.g. which application and/or plugin).
@item Name
A string which specifically identifies the parameter within the group.
@item Value
The value of the parameter. This is stored as a string, but can be
converted to a number of possible scalar and list types.
@end table

Groups, names and values are all case-sensitive.

@subsubsection Configuration groups and keys

@defun config-groups cfg
Returns a list of all groups available in @var{cfg} and its parent
contexts.

Since 1.10.
@end defun

@defun config-has-group? cfg group
Determines whether @var{cfg} or its parent contexts contain the
specified @var{group}

Since 1.10.
@end defun

@defun config-keys cfg group
Returns a list of all keys available in the specified @var{group} in
@var{cfg} and its parent contexts.

Since 1.10.
@end defun

@defun config-has-key? cfg group key
Determines whether @var{cfg} or its parent contexts contains @var{key}
in the specified @var{group}.

Since 1.10.
@end defun

@defun config-remove-key! cfg group key
Removes the configuration parameter identified by the given @var{group}
and @var{key} in the configuration context @var{cfg}. Returns @samp{#t}
on success, @samp{#f} otherwise.

@end defun

@defun config-remove-group! cfg group
Removes the configuration group identified by @var{group}
and all its parameters in the configuration context @var{cfg}.
Returns @samp{#t} on success, @samp{#f} otherwise.

@end defun

@subsubsection Configuration inheritance

If a configuration context does not directly specify a value for a
configuration parameter, it inherits the value from its parent
context.

@xref{Configuration contexts, , Context parents}.

@defun config-inherited? cfg group key
Returns @samp{#f} if value of the configuration parameter with the
given @var{group} and @var{key} is specified in the context @var{cfg},
and @samp{#t} if it is inherited from a parent context of @var{cfg}.

Since 1.10.
@end defun

@defun config-source cfg group key
Returns the configuration context (either @var{cfg} or one of its
parent contexts) in which the configuration parameter with the given
@var{group} and @var{key} has its value defined.

Since 1.10.
@end defun

@subsubsection Configuration values
@cindex Getting configuration parameters
@cindex Setting configuration parameters

Each value is stored as a UTF-8 string in the configuration file.
However, this string can be parsed a several different types.  All of
the following types are supported:

@itemize
@item
Strings
@item
Booleans
@item
Exact integers
@item
Inexact real numbers
@end itemize

In addition, lists of all the above are supported.

@defun config-string cfg group key
Retrieve configuration value as a string.

Since 1.10.
@end defun

@defun config-boolean cfg group key
Retrieve configuration value as a boolean.

Since 1.10.
@end defun

@defun config-int cfg group key
Retrieve configuration value as an exact integer.

Since 1.10.
@end defun

@defun config-real cfg group key
Retrieve configuration value as an inexact real number.

Since 1.10.
@end defun

@defun config-string-list cfg group key
Retrieve configuration value as a list of strings.

Since 1.10.
@end defun

@defun config-boolean-list cfg group key
Retrieve configuration value as a list of booleans.

Since 1.10.
@end defun
@defun config-int-list cfg group key
Retrieve configuration value as a list of exact integers.

Since 1.10.
@end defun

@defun config-real-list cfg group key
Retrieve configuration value as a list of inexact real numbers.

Since 1.10.
@end defun

@defun set-config! cfg group key value
Set the configuration parameter identified by the given @var{group}
and @var{key} in the configuration context @var{cfg}.  The type of
value to set is inferred from @var{value}. Returns @var{cfg}.

Since 1.10.
@end defun

@node Configuration events
@subsection Configuration events
@cindex Configuration events
@cindex Configuration notifications

When the value of a configuration parameter is altered, either
directly or by loading a configuration file, a @dfn{configuration
event} is generated.  Handlers can be registered to be notified when a
configuration event occurs.  A configuration event is associated with
the group and key that had its value modified.

If a configuration event is emitted by a configuration context, it
propagates to all configuration contexts which inherit that group and
key from it.

A configuration event handler must be a closure that accepts three
arguments:

@example
handler cfg group key
@end example

@var{cfg} is always the configuration context that received the event,
and the @var{group} and @var{key} identify the configuration parameter
that changed.
When a configuration group is deleted, @var{group} argument is set to
the name of the deleted group and @var{key} argument is set to an empty
string.

@defun add-config-event! cfg handler
Registers @var{handler} to be called when configuration changes in the
context @var{cfg}.

Since 1.10.
@end defun

@defun remove-config-event! cfg handler
Stops @var{handler} from being called when configuration changes in
the context @var{cfg}.

Since 1.10.
@end defun

@node Configuration errors
@subsection Configuration errors
@cindex Configuration errors

All errors in functions in the @code{(lepton config)} are reported using
one of two keys:

@enumerate
@item
File errors (e.g. ``Access denied'' or ``File not found'' are
indicated with the @code{system-error} key.
@item
All other errors are indicated using the @code{config-error} key.
@end enumerate

When a @code{config-error} is signalled, @code{data} part of the error
arguments is a list containing one of the following symbols:

@table @code
@item unknown-encoding
The text being parsed was in an unknown encoding.
@item parse
The configuration data wass ill-formed.
@item key-not-found
A requested configuration key was not found.
@item group-not-found
A requested configuration group was not found.
@item invalid-value
A configuration value could not be parsed into the requested format.
@end table

@node Logging functions
@section Logging functions

To use the functions described in this section, you will need to load
the @code{(lepton log)} module.

@defun log! level message [format-args...]
Emit a log message with the specified @var{level}.  The @var{message}
is interpreted as a format string, with @var{format-args} as its
parameters.

The @var{level} should be one of the symbols @code{error},
@code{critical}, @code{warning}, @code{message}, @code{info} or
@code{debug}.

Note: if @var{level} is set to @code{error}, main program will terminate.

Generally, if the @var{level} is not @code{debug}, then the message
should be localised.
@end defun

@node System information
@section System information

To use the functions described in this section, you will need to load
the @code{(lepton os)} module.

This section describes some functions and variables that are useful
for Scheme code that needs to behave differently depending on which
operating system Lepton is running on.

@defvar separator-char
The directory separator character that should be used on the host
platform.

The @code{separator-char} function is deprecated and must not be used in
the newly written code. It will be removed after version 1.10.
There is no replacement for it.
@end defvar

@defvar separator
A string containing @code{separator-char}.

The @code{separator} function is deprecated and must not be used in
the newly written code. It will be removed after version 1.10.
Use the guile function @code{file-name-separator-string} instead.
@end defvar

@defvar path-separator-char
The character used for separating the elements in @samp{PATH}-like
environment variables on the host platform.
@end defvar

@defvar path-separator
A string containing @code{path-separator-char}.
@end defvar

@defun platform
Returns a list of symbols describing the host platform.  The returned
symbols may include:

@itemize
@item
@samp{cygwin}
@item
@samp{linux}
@item
@samp{win32}
@item
@samp{win32-native}
@item
@samp{unknown}
@end itemize

@quotation Note
Previously, the function defined platform on Mac OS as @samp{carbon}.
Since the Carbon framework has been discontinued by Apple, the symbol
is no longer used, and the platform will be determined as
@samp{unknown}.  The Guile variable @var{%host-type} can be used
instead to define the platform in this case.  For example:
@lisp
(string-contains %host-type "apple")
@end lisp
Please let us know if you have a better suggestion of how to name the
platform in the function.
@end quotation

@end defun

@defun platform? type
Returns @samp{#t} if the platform description list returned by
@code{platform} contains the symbol @var{type}, and @samp{#f}
otherwise.
@end defun

@defun sys-data-dirs
Returns an ordered list of directories in which to access system-wide
Lepton data.
@end defun

@defun sys-config-dirs
Returns an ordered list of directories in which to access system-wide
Lepton configuration information.
@end defun

@defun user-data-dir
Returns the directory in which to store user-specific Lepton data.
@end defun

@defun user-config-dir
Returns the directory in which to store user-specific Lepton
configuration information.
@end defun

@defun user-cache-dir
Returns the directory in which to store program-specific Lepton
configuration information.
@end defun

@defun expand-env-variables str
Recursively expands @var{str} until no more environment variables can be
expanded, and return the expanded string. Environment variables are in
the form @samp{$@{VAR@}}.

@example
(expand-env-variables "$@{HOME@}/path/to/dir")
@end example

@end defun

@node Version information
@section Version information

To use the functions described in this section, you will need to load
the @code{(lepton version)} module.

This section describes functions and variables that can be used to get
and report Lepton version data.

The following list of symbols can be used with functions described
below to retrieve corresponding version information:

@itemize
@item
@samp{prepend} Text that is usually prepended when the version
information is output.
@item
@samp{dotted} Dotted version info.
@item
@samp{date} Date of the current release.
@item
@samp{git} Git commit hash of the current release.
@item
@samp{bugs} Internet address of Lepton's bugtracker.
@item
@samp{url} Internet address of Lepton's main page.
@item
@samp{copyright} General copyright information.
@end itemize

An optional element, @samp{git7}, can be used to get 7-char prefix of
the git commit hash.

@defun lepton-version-ref element

Returns a single version data string by specified @var{element} from
the above symbol list.

For example, you can use @samp{(lepton-version-ref 'copyright)} to get
copyright info of the library.

@lisp
(lepton-version-ref 'git7)
@result{} "88acbbd"
@end lisp
@end defun

@defun lepton-version-data [element-list]

Returns a list of strings corresponding to the above symbol list
(exluding @samp{git7}) in order.  An optional argument
@var{element-list} can be specified to retrieve any number of the data
strings in any order.

@lisp
(lepton-version-data 'dotted 'git7)
@result{} ("1.9.11" "88acbbd")
@end lisp
@end defun

@defun lepton-version [format-string . format-args]
Returns a generic string describing the version of Lepton library
currently in use.

If the optional @var{format-string} is specified, it is interpreted as
a format string, with @var{format-args} as its parameters.

@lisp
(lepton-version)
@result{} "Lepton EDA 1.9.11.20200604 (git: 88acbbd)"
(lepton-version "lepton-netlist ~A" 'dotted)
@result{} "lepton-netlist 1.9.11"
@end lisp
@end defun

@defun display-lepton-version [print-name] [copyright] [log]

Outputs version of a Lepton tool to the current output port or log. If
@var{print-name} keyword argument is true (@samp{#t}), the basename of
the tool is included to the output.  If @var{log} keyword argument is
true (@samp{#t}), the output will go to log instead of standard output
port. If @var{copyright} is true (@samp{#t}), copyright information
will be output as well.  By default, all keywords are set to false
(@samp{#f}).

@lisp
(display-lepton-version)
@print{} "Lepton EDA 1.9.11.20200604 (git: 88acbbd)"
(display-lepton-version #:print-name #t)
@print{} "Lepton EDA/lepton-netlist 1.9.11.20200604 (git: 88acbbd)"
@end lisp
@end defun

@node lepton-schematic API Reference
@chapter lepton-schematic API Reference

The Scheme modules and functions described in this chapter are
available in the Lepton schematic editor application lepton-schematic.
They are more focused on enabling and responding to user editing
operations.

@menu
* Windows and views::
* Key mapping::
* Selections::
* Hooks::
* Actions::
* Miscellanous lepton-schematic functions::
@end menu

@node Windows and views
@section Windows and views

To use the functions described in this section, you will need to load
the @code{(schematic window)} module.

@defun active-page
Returns the @code{page} currently being displayed for editing.
@end defun

@defun set-active-page! page
Sets the current @code{page} to @var{page}.
@end defun

@defun pointer-position
Returns the current mouse pointer position in world coordinates in the
form @samp{(x . y)}.  If the pointer is outside the display area,
returns @samp{#f}.
@end defun

@defun snap-point point
Snaps the given @var{point} to the current snap grid, i.e. returns the
closest grid location to @var{point}.  Expects a point in the form
@samp{(x . y)}, and returns a point in the same format.
@end defun

@node Key mapping
@section Key mapping

To use the functions described in this section, you will need to load
the @code{(schematic keymap)} module.

@subsection Key combinations

lepton-schematic treats key combinations as first-class objects.  A key
combination consists of a non-modifier key press with some number of
modifiers applied.  For example, the key combination @kbd{Ctrl+Shift+A}
(which calls @strong{Edit→Deselect} by default) is typed by
holding the @key{Ctrl} and @key{Shift} keys down, and then pressing
@key{A}.

@defun key? obj
Returns @samp{#t} if and only if @var{obj} is a key combination.
@end defun

@defun string->key str
Parses @var{str} to create a new key combination.  The expected format
looks like @samp{<Control>a} or @samp{<Shift><Alt>F1}.  Key names are
parsed using @code{gdk_keyval_from_name()}, and modifiers may appear in
any order.  If @var{str} has invalid syntax or does not represent a
valid key combination, raises a @samp{key-format} error.
@end defun

@defun key->string key
Converts @var{key} to a string, using a format suitable for passing to
@code{string->key}.
@end defun

@defun key->display-string key
Converts @var{key} to a string, using a format suitable for
display. This should be used when the key combination needs to be
displayed to the user e.g. in the lepton-schematic menus or status
area.  The returned string is translated according to the user's
current locale.

@example
(key->display-string (string->key ``<Control>bracketright''))
=> ``Ctrl+]''
@end example
@end defun

@subsection Key sequences

Most lepton-schematic functionality is bound not to single key
combinations but to sequences of them.  For example, @strong{File→New}
is bound to @kbd{F N} by default (i.e. press @key{F} followed by
@key{N}).  Key sequences are simply vectors of key bindings.  For
example:

@example
(string->keys ``F N'')
=> #(#<schematic-key "F"> #<schematic-key "N">)
@end example

In this case, @key{F} is a @dfn{prefix key}, because pressing it does
not cause an action to be carried out directly, but just changes the
effect of pressing subsequent keys.

@defun keys? obj
Returns @samp{#t} if and only if @var{obj} is a valid key sequence.
@end defun

@defun string->keys str
Parses @var{str} into a key sequence.  The expected format is a sequence
of key combination specifications (as could be passed to
@code{string->key}) separated by spaces.
@end defun

@defun keys->string keys
Converts the key sequence @var{keys} to a string, using a format
suitable for passing to @code{string->keys}.
@end defun

@defun keys->display-string keys
Converts the key sequence @var{keys} to a string, using a format
suitable for display.
@end defun

@subsection Keymaps

A @dfn{keymap} maps key combinations to values (usually actions) or to
other keymaps.  @xref{Actions}.

@defun keymap? obj
Returns @samp{#t} if and only if @var{obj} is a keymap.
@end defun

@defun make-keymap
Creates and returns a new, empty keymap.
@end defun

@defun keymap-bind-key! keymap key [bindable]
Binds @var{key} to @var{bindable} in @var{keymap}.  If @var{bindable} is
@samp{#f} or not specified, removes the binding for @var{key}.
@var{bindable} should be a thunk or a keymap.
@end defun

@defun keymap-lookup-key keymap key
Looks up the binding for @var{key} in @var{keymap}.  If @var{key} is not
bound, returns @samp{#f}.
@end defun

@defun keymap-lookup-binding keymap bindable
Carries out a reverse lookup in @var{keymap} to find the key bound to
@var{bindable}.  If @var{bindable} is not bound in @var{keymap},
returns @samp{#f}.
@end defun

@defun keymap-for-each proc keymap
Applies @var{proc} to each binding in @var{keymap}.  @var{proc} should
take two arguments: the bound key, and its binding.
@end defun

Actions are bound to key sequences by binding the first key
combination to a keymap, then in the resulting keymap binding the
second key combination, etc.  This results in a directed graph of
keymaps.

For example, to bind the key sequence @kbd{F N}, a keymap is created
containing a binding for @key{N} to the desired action, and then in the
main keymap the prefix key @key{F} is bound to the new keymap.

Three helper functions are provided for working with key sequence
bindings.

@defun bind-keys! keymap keys [bindable]
Bind @var{keys} to @var{bindable}.  Keys may be a key sequence vector, a
single key combination, or a string representing a key sequence or key
combination.  If @var{bindable} is @samp{#f} or not specified, removes
the binding for @var{keys}.  @var{bindable} should be a thunk or a
keymap.

If @var{keys} contains invalid prefix keys (e.g. because one of the
prefix keys is already bound to something other than a keymap), raises
an error.  Missing prefix keymaps are created as required.
@end defun

@defun lookup-keys keymap keys
Looks up the binding for @var{keys} in @var{keymap}.  @var{keys} is
interpreted the same as for @code{bind-keys!}.  If @var{keys} is not
bound, returns @samp{#f}.
@end defun

@defun lookup-binding keymap bindable
Recursively searches @var{keymap} for the key sequence bound to
@var{bindable}, which should be a thunk or a keymap.  If
@var{bindable} is not bound, returns @samp{#f}.
@end defun

@node Selections
@section Selections

To use the functions described in this section, you will need to load
the @code{(schematic selection)} module.

Each @code{page} in lepton-schematic has a @dfn{selection} associated
with it, which is some subset of the @code{page}s contents.  Most
actions in lepton-schematic operate on the currently selected objects.

@defun page-selection page
Returns the current selection for @var{page}, as a list of
@code{object}s.
@end defun

@defun object-selected? object
Returns @samp{#t} if @var{object} is in its containing page's
selection. Otherwise, returns @samp{#f}.  If @var{object} is not in a
@code{page}, raises an @samp{object-state} error.

@strong{Note}: @var{object} must be @emph{directly} included in a
@code{page}, not via inclusion in a component @code{object}.
@end defun

@defun select-object! object
Adds @var{object} to the selection of its containing @code{page}.  If
@var{object} is not directly included in a @code{page}, raises an
@samp{object-state} error.  If @var{object} is already selected, does
nothing.  Returns @var{object}.

@strong{Note}: This function does not call @code{select-objects-hook}.
@end defun

@defun deselect-object! object
Removes @var{object} from the selection of its containing @code{page}.
If @var{object} is not directly included in a @code{page}, raises an
@samp{object-state} error.  If @var{object} is not selected, does
nothing.  Returns @var{object}.

@strong{Note}: This function does not call
@code{deselect-objects-hook}.
@end defun

@node Hooks
@section Hooks

To use the hooks described in this section, you will need to load the
@code{(schematic hook)} module.

lepton-schematic defines a number of hooks that allow functions to be
automatically run whenever a number of built-in actions are invoked by
the user.

Most Scheme functions do not call these hooks.  If it makes sense for
your code to invoke a standard hook, you should normally do so
explicitly.

@strong{Warning}: Functions added to these standard hooks should not
normally modify their arguments.

For more information on hooks in Guile, @pxref{Hooks, , Hooks, guile,
Guile Reference Manual}.

@defvar add-objects-hook
Called after objects are added to the page, at their initial creation.
The argument is a list of the objects being added.
@end defvar

@defvar copy-objects-hook
Called after objects are copied, either via @strong{Edit → Copy Mode} or
similar, or to buffers, or to the clipboard.  Argument is a list of the
objects that were copied.
@end defvar

@defvar remove-objects-hook
Called after objects are removed from the page.  Argument is a list of
the objects being removed.
@end defvar

@defvar move-objects-hook
Called after objects are moved.  Argument is a list of the objects
that were moved.
@end defvar

@defvar mirror-objects-hook
Called after objects are mirrored.  Argument is a list of the objects
that were mirrored.
@end defvar

@defvar rotate-objects-hook
Called after objects are rotated.  Argument is a list of the objects
that were rotated.
@end defvar

@defvar paste-objects-hook
Called after objects are pasted to the page, either via @strong{Edit →
Copy Mode} or similar, or via buffers, or via the clipboard.  Argument
is a list of the objects that were pasted.
@end defvar

@defvar attach-attribs-hook
Called after attributes are attached to something.  The argument is a
list of the attributes that were attached.
@end defvar

@defvar detach-attribs-hook
Called after attributes are detached from something.  The argument is
a list of the attributes that were detached.
@end defvar

@defvar select-objects-hook
Called after objects are added to the selection.  The argument is a
list of objects that were selected.
@end defvar

@defvar deselect-objects-hook
Called after objects are removed from the selection.  The argument is
a list of objects that were deselected.
@end defvar

@defvar new-page-hook
Called when a new page is created. The argument is the new page.
@end defvar

@defvar open-page-hook
Called when an existing page is loaded. The argument is the loaded page.
@end defvar

@defvar action-property-hook
Called when an action property is set.  The arguments are the action,
the property key and the property value. @xref{Actions}.

Since 1.10.
@end defvar

@defvar bind-keys-hook
Called when a key binding is set or modified.  The arguments are the
keymap, the key sequence and the binding's target.

@strong{Note}: @code{bind-keys-hook} may be run multiple times for a
single key binding event if the target keymap is bound within a
superior keymap.

Since 1.10.
@end defvar

@defvar switch-action-mode-hook
Called when GUI switches to a new action mode. The argument is the new
mode.

The action mode may be one of the following symbols:

@itemize
@item
@samp{select-mode}
@item
@samp{grips-mode}
@item
@samp{arc-mode}
@item
@samp{box-mode}
@item
@samp{bus-mode}
@item
@samp{circle-mode}
@item
@samp{line-mode}
@item
@samp{net-mode}
@item
@samp{path-mode}
@item
@samp{picture-mode}
@item
@samp{pin-mode}
@item
@samp{component-mode}
@item
@samp{copy-mode}
@item
@samp{multiple-copy-mode}
@item
@samp{move-mode}
@item
@samp{paste-mode}
@item
@samp{text-mode}
@item
@samp{box-select-mode}
@item
@samp{zoom-box-mode}
@item
@samp{pan-mode}
@item
@samp{mirror-mode}
@item
@samp{rotate-mode}
@end itemize

@example
(add-hook! switch-action-mode-hook
           (lambda (mode) (display mode) (newline)))
@end example

Since 1.10.
@end defvar

@node Actions
@section Actions
@cindex Actions

To use the functions described in this section, you will need to load
the @code{(schematic action)} module.

@subsection Action objects
@cindex Action objects
@cindex Action properties

Usually, it is sufficient to use normal Scheme functions when
extending lepton-schematic.  However, when integrating an extension
function with the lepton-schematic GUI (e.g. via keybindings), it is
often useful to couple a Scheme function with metadata such as the
label and icon to show in menus, etc.

You can do this by creating a lepton-schematic action.  Actions can be
called just like a normal Scheme function, but get executed via the
lepton-schematic action dispatcher @code{eval-action!} rather than
being invoked directly.  Normally, actions have names begining with an
@samp{&} symbol.

@defmac define-action (name [keyword value ...]) body
Create a new action, bound to the given @var{name} in the current
module.  The @var{body} is a sequence of Scheme expressions which are
evaluated in order when the action is invoked.  Any number of initial
properties can be specified for the action by providing pairs of
@var{keyword}s and @var{value}s.

@example
(define-action (&report-bug #:label ``Report Bug'' #:icon ``web-browser'')
  (show-uri ``https://github.com/lepton-eda/lepton-eda/issues/new''))
@end example

Since 1.10.
@end defmac

@defun make-action thunk [keyword value ...]
Create and return a new action wrapping @var{thunk}.  Optionally,
specify @var{keyword}-@var{value} pairs to set initial properties for the
action.

Since 1.10.
@end defun

@defun action? obj
Returns @samp{#t} iff @var{obj} is a lepton-schematic action, and
@samp{#f} otherwise.

Since 1.10.
@end defun

Action properties are name-value pairs that are attached to an action.

@defun action-property action key
Return the value of one of @var{action}'s properties.  @var{key} is a
symbol naming the property to retrieve.

Since 1.10.
@end defun

@defun set-action-property! action key value
Set the value of one of @var{action}'s properties.  @var{key} is a
symbol naming the property to set, and @var{value} is the new value.

Since 1.10.
@end defun

@subsection Evaluating actions
@cindex Evaluating actions
@cindex Action evaluation

All of lepton-schematic's built-in actions are callable just like
normal Scheme functions.  However, it's sometimes useful to explicitly
evaluate an action in the same way that the lepton-schematic GUI
(menus, toolbars or keybindings) would do so.

@defun eval-action! action
Invoke @var{action}, returning @samp{#t} on success and raising an
error on failure.  There are a number of possible types for
@var{action} that @code{eval-action!} will accept:

@itemize
@item
A thunk.
@item
A lepton-schematic action.
@item
A symbol naming an action or a thunk in the current module.
@end itemize

The special symbol @samp{repeat-last-command} is interpreted as a
request to repeat the last action evaluated via @code{eval-action!}.

@strong{Note}: If you have an action object @code{&action}, then the
following two calls are equivalent and interchangeable:

@example
(eval-action! &action)
(&action)
@end example

Since 1.10.
@end defun

@subsection Action positions
@cindex Action positions

Often in lepton-schematic actions it may be useful not to use the
actual current mouse pointer position but to use the mouse pointer
position that was current when the action was invoked.

@defun eval-action-at-point! action [point]
Evaluate @var{action} at a particular point on the schematic plane.
If @var{point} is omitted, the action is evaluated at the current
mouse pointer position.

Since 1.10.
@end defun

@defun action-position
Return the current action pointer position, as set when the action was
invoked (via @code{eval-action-at-point!}).  This only makes sense to
call from inside an action.

Since 1.10.
@end defun

@strong{Note}: The pointer position can only be considered reliable
when the user was actually clicking on or pointing at the schematic
view area to invoke the action, rather than on a menu or toolbar
button.  At the moment this means that an action position is only set
when a command is invoked by hotkey.

@node Miscellanous lepton-schematic functions
@section Miscellaneous lepton-schematic functions

@subsection lepton-schematic Attribute Helpers

To use the functions described in this section, you will need to load
the @code{(schematic attrib)} module.

@defun add-attrib! target name value visible show
Create a new attribute, either attached to a @var{target}
@code{object} in the current @code{page}, or floating in the current
@code{page} if @var{target} is @samp{#f}.  The @var{name} and
@var{value} for the attribute must be strings, and if visible is
@samp{#f}, the attribute will be invisible.  The @var{show} argument
controls which parts of the attribute will be visible, and must be one
of the following symbols:

@itemize
@item
@samp{name}
@item
@samp{value}
@item
@samp{both}
@end itemize

This function exists to provide a way for actions defined in Scheme to
use the same attribute placement heuristics as lepton-schematic's
built-in @strong{Add Attribute} action.

@xref{Text}, @ref{Attributes} and @ref{Windows and views}.
@end defun

@subsection Miscellaneous utility functions

To use the functions described in this section, you will need to load
the @code{(schematic util)} module.

@defun show-uri uri
Open @var{uri} in the registered default application associated for
that type of file or protocol.  URI should be fully-qualified URI;
which URIs can be handled by @code{show-uri} will depend on the system
configuration.  Raises @code{misc-error} on failure.
@end defun

@defun show-file filename
Displays a file in the registered default application for files of
that type. @var{filename} should be the absolute path and filename of
a local file.  Convenience function which calls
@code{(show-uri "file://@var{filename}")}
@end defun

@node lepton-netlist API Reference
@chapter lepton-netlist API Reference

The Scheme modules and functions described in this chapter are
available in the Lepton netlister application lepton-netlist.

@node Concept Index
@unnumbered Concept Index

@printindex cp

@node Function Index
@unnumbered Function Index

@printindex fn

@node Variable Index
@unnumbered Variable Index

@printindex vr

@bye
